{
  "tags": [
    "world/surveillance",
    "media/social-media",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/computing",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "title": "Your virtual friendships come with privacy risks, campaigners warn",
  "lead": "Most social media users unaware of potential threat of surveillance under snooper's charter, rights groups say",
  "words": null,
  "id": "world/2016/feb/19/social-media--privacy-surveillance-fraud-risks-campaigners-warn",
  "core-words": null,
  "class": true,
  "content": "Many Britons are exposing themselves to surveillance and fraud risks, privacy campaigners have warned after a poll found that almost half of people surveyed preferred to keep in touch with friends virtually rather than in person. The survey of 2,000 people also found that 79% maintain friendships they feel would wither without being linked through social media, and a further 72% believe online networks have strengthened their friendships. But many people are not aware that sharing information over services such as Facebook \u2013 which 80% said they do \u2013 hands ownership of their data to organisations which are not transparent about the ways that they use it, campaigners warn. They added that with the return to the legislative agenda of the investigatory powers bill, which has been labelled a snooper's charter, British users of online platforms could find their communications laid open to the state. Sara Nelson, a spokeswoman for Privacy International, said: \"People live online and when things like the investigatory powers bill and what's happening with Apple in the US happen, it throws into question how we continue to use those services.\" California-based Apple has been embroiled in a high-profile spat with US authorities after it refused an FBI request to help agents access encrypted information in the iPhone owned by one of the perpetrators of the San Bernardino mass shootings. Under the investigatory powers bill, the UK government could make similar orders to equipment manufacturers like Apple, as well as online platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp, in total secrecy. \"Being unable to tell customers that their services are weakened \u2013 how do you continue to use those services in the way that we do now, especially with people communicating private details of their lives?\" Nelson asked. She added: \"One interesting thing in the investigatory powers bill is this idea of internet connection records. \"Every website that you visit would be recorded and stored for a year and the idea that everything we do online is recorded and stored, that in itself is alarming. I think if people knew about that it would have a chilling effect on how people interact online.\" Jim Killock, the executive director of the Open Rights Group, which campaigns for privacy and against mass surveillance, said that even leaving aside cases of government surveillance, social media and other online services \"don't necessarily give people much choice on how data is used\". \"The problem is that most of the time these platforms are going to take things like data security very seriously, but they also see that data as something to monetise,\" Killock said. \"Sometimes it's not as private as it may seem, as that is the bottom line with these different platforms and applications.\" According to the research on internet communications, carried out on behalf of BT, each person in the UK sends an average of 11,315 texts each year, along with 1,092 picture messages and 6,935 WhatsApp messages. It also found that people are increasingly sharing content, with one in 10 people sharing more than 50 videos a week with online contacts. Killock warned that regular users of such platforms should take steps to ensure their security, including checking their privacy settings, using secure passwords and password managers and not over-sharing details of their personal lives online. \"Also turn encryption on on your devices, so that if you lose a phone, or worse a tablet or laptop, you are not in danger of all your information being accessed by somebody you really wouldn't want accessing it,\" he added."
}