{
  "tags": [
    "world/world"
  ],
  "title": "World news in brief",
  "lead": "More news from around the world",
  "words": null,
  "id": "world/2008/nov/19/world-news-in-brief",
  "core-words": null,
  "class": false,
  "content": "Judge forced to drop efforts to indict Franco A Spanish judge has abandoned attempts to symbolically indict General Franco and his regime over atrocities committed during and after the civil war. Judge Baltasar Garz\u00f3n reluctantly yielded in a dispute over jurisdiction, but maintained that Franco should be tried for crimes against humanity over the killings of tens of thousands of civilians by his supporters during the 1936-39 war, and in the early years of his rule. It was the first official investigation into a period of history which had been taboo for many Spaniards. Garz\u00f3n, known as a human rights crusader, launched the inquiry last month. Associated Press in Madrid 12,000-year-old skeleton of 'witch doctor' found in Israel Archaeologists digging in the Galilee area of Israel have discovered the 12,000-year-old skeleton of what they say was a witch doctor. Leore Grosman, in charge of the excavation, said the bones of a deformed woman, of around the age of 45, from the Natufian culture, which ranged from Syria to the Sinai peninsula at the time, were found in a carved oval grave with the skull resting on a tortoise shell. The skeleton was covered by large stones, which may have been placed there to keep the witch doctor's spirit entombed. Grosman said most people from the period were buried in communal graves. Associated Press in Jerusalem Ex-prime minister Thaksin launches foundation Thaksin Shinawatra, Thailand's fugitive ex-prime minister, has launched his own foundation. The Building a Better Future foundation opened offices on Monday in Hong Kong and Dubai. Its website says it aims to recruit Asia's \"rising stars\" to confront the economic and development issues faced by the region. \"Together we can help address the challenges of developing nations,\" Thaksin said in a statement. The 59-year-old recently lost his British visa after a Thai court sentenced him to two years in jail. And at the weekend he and his wife, Pojaman, announced their divorce. Associated Press in Bangkok"
}