{
  "tags": [
    "business/banking",
    "business/recession",
    "business/credit-crunch",
    "business/useconomy",
    "politics/economy",
    "business/useconomicgrowth",
    "business/business",
    "business/consumerspending",
    "uk/uk",
    "business/financial-crisis"
  ],
  "title": "Tetsuya Ishikawa: Stop scapegoating bankers, we must all take responsibility for this crisis",
  "lead": "Tetsuya Ishikawa: To focus on Fred Goodwin's pension package is to miss the point. We must all take responsibility for this financial crisis",
  "words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/feb/27/banking-recession",
  "core-words": null,
  "class": false,
  "content": "If at any point we have wondered why there's so much press focus on what seems to be irrelevant, then it's because the public wants it and it sells. Yesterday's revelation of Sir Fred Goodwin's egregious pension exploited that because history will remember yesterday not for Goodwin, but for the separation of RBS's toxic assets into the government's asset protection scheme. After all, a few hundred billion pounds of risk for the taxpayer is more important than trying to claim back a few hundred thousand pounds a year from a Scot that is now, to all intents and purposes, irrelevant. It's not that I want to be dismissive about Goodwin. His pension has got everyone, including most of the City, riled. But there has been worse in the industry. In the US, Chuck Prince got $95m from Citigroup and Stan O'Neal $159m from Merrill Lynch when they were fired as CEOs in 2007, which makes Goodwin's pension look like peanuts. Yet, they have seen little more than Obama's meaningless caps that don't apply to them and some noise from Christopher Dodd, chairman of the Senate banking committee, about \"every legal means to get the money back\". And without the US setting a precedent, there was an air of defeatism behind the furore yesterday about what could ultimately be done with Goodwin. But this defeatism, or the desire to fight it, shouldn't consume us like it has. Goodwin is nothing more than a symbol of failure, not the cause, and confusing the two is as productive as a cat chasing its own tail. Because after sleeping better for a night, we'll wake up in the morning to find our problems haven't disappeared, that there are others like Goodwin who can also take his old symbolic perch of failure and be made the target of our anger. And for what? Because ultimately whatever happens to any individual is going to have very little relevance to getting the UK out of this mess. To make it even more depressing, if it pursues every legal avenue to get money from one individual, the government, and people like John Prescott, will be jumping on the populist bandwagon, like it did yesterday to hide its own failings. Furthermore, the legal fees won't be cheap either, ensuring we are treated to the spectacle of money moving from Goodwin's pocket into those of some lawyers. Which is why it was a shame Mervyn King's testimony to the Treasury select committee yesterday passed by without much of a mention. Only two weeks ago, the whole country seemed to be tuned in as Goodwin et al were grilled. Not so this week, even when he said rather provocatively regarding Goodwin's pension that he didn't want to \"jump on the bandwagon of a rather unappealing sort of vengeance\". In fact, his response to the Goodwin saga was the most sensible of anyone's yesterday. \"The real question is why anyone thought it was a good idea for executives to be rewarded in this way.\" Well, everyone might claim now that they always believed these bonuses were excessive but if they're sure that they're thinking independently of hindsight, then why didn't they speak up? And if it was widely resented, why didn't the press speak up either? \"They would have been seen to be arguing against success.\" King was referring to regulators specifically when he said this, but it's not so different from the experiences felt by those who argued house prices were going to come down eventually; by those who said aggressive lending should be restricted; by those who called for greater regulation and greater oversight; by those who said and believed that the era of boom and bust was gone. If the real issues are going to be dealt with, we need to move away from our addiction to scapegoating and our collective comfort with zero accountability. As King said: \"You cannot blame one individual for the failure of a system.\" In fact, you can't blame just those in the City. What about those in Wall Street and Washington? What about all the Ferrari-driving subprime mortgage brokers in California? What about the Bank of International Settlements that reduced the amount of capital that needed to be held against AAA-rated securitisation deals? What about the fund managers we trusted to invest out money? What about those who borrowed beyond their means, despite warnings about the rising consumer debt levels in this country? Most people are due some blame. Obviously, bankers and politicians must be apportioned with more blame than most but for as long as no one wants to take accountability, whether it be Gordon Brown, the credit-hungry consumer or the overstretched homeowner, then no one will willingly accept responsibility and be accountable, least of all the likes of Goodwin. Which is a shame, because until we can all begin to accept our part, it's unlikely we'll learn the real lessons of this crisis, making it harder to move on to a better future any time soon."
}