{
  "tags": [
    "sport/horse-racing",
    "sport/sport"
  ],
  "title": "Loophole will allow the banned jockey Paul Carberry to ride in Ireland",
  "lead": "Loophole will allow banned jockey Paul Carberry to ride in Ireland",
  "words": null,
  "id": "sport/2009/nov/26/paul-carberry-loophole-breath-test",
  "core-words": null,
  "class": false,
  "content": "Bad weather is helping Paul Carberry to defeat the riding ban imposed on him by the Irish authorities for failing a second pre-race breath test for alcohol. Yesterday the jockey served the first day of a 30-day ban which, as originally framed, prevented him from riding in Ireland until 24 January, but he could be back in action tomorrow and in each of the next two weeks, due to an administrative loophole. Carberry's ban, issued two weeks ago, prevents him from riding on 30 specific dates \u2013 the days when jump racing was expected to take place in Ireland. But if a meeting is abandoned for whatever reason and, as often happens in Ireland, rearranged to take place on a day for which no racing had previously been scheduled, he would be allowed to ride. The jockey did not miss out on the first day of his ban, as yesterday's meeting at Naas was abandoned because of waterlogging. It will be restaged, weather permitting, next Thursday, when Carberry expects to be back in the weighing room. The 35-year-old can also ride tomorrow at Thurles, a meeting saved from last week, and at Wexford a week on Monday, a card that was supposed to be held this weekend, when Carberry is banned, but which has already been postponed. \"His days are fixed. That's just the way it works,\" said Denis Egan, a spokesman for the Irish Turf Club. \"One of the reasons the Irish Turf Club and the British Horseracing Authority both decided to switch to bans that specified racedays, as opposed to bans that covered every day within a given time span, is that if you gave someone a seven-day ban, he might miss one raceday at one time of the year or seven days at another.\" Carberry yesterday welcomed the fact that he can continue to race-ride in Ireland, though he remains hopeful of picking up spare rides in England on days when there is no scheduled racing in Ireland. He is keeping fit by riding out at Noel Meade's yard and by hunting, which he expects to be doing this morning. \"It seems great to me,\" said Meade, \"though the days you really want him for are the big ones and I would think they'll all take place on the original days.\" Carberry will not be able to partner the trainer's runners in Britain this Saturday, Casey Jones in the Hennessy Cognac Gold Cup at Newbury or Go Native in Newcastle's Fighting Fifth Hurdle. Delegator will lose his victory in Goodwood's Celebration Mile following the completion of an investigation by the British Horseracing Authority. Although the sport's ruling body has not yet issued a confirmation, it is understood that Godolphin, owners of the three-year-old, do not dispute that he failed a drug test following his victory on 29 August. A urine sample tested positive for methylprednisolone, an anti-inflammatory drug. There are not thought to be any suspicious circumstances \u2013 the drug is legal but there is a lengthy withdrawal period before a horse can race again. On this occasion it appears that traces remained in Delegator's system even after the withdrawal period was observed. Delegator will be disqualified, leaving Zacinto to be awarded the race and first-place prize money of \u00a367,000. There was no comment yesterday from Godolphin, who can also expect a fine."
}