{
  "tags": [
    "books/fiction",
    "books/books",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "title": "I am No One by Patrick Flanery review \u2013 terrifying visions of a world without privacy",
  "lead": "A master of puzzling storytelling explores a world in which everything is recorded and prying is called 'research'",
  "words": null,
  "id": "books/2016/feb/12/i-am-no-one-patrick-flanery-review",
  "core-words": null,
  "class": false,
  "content": "I went to a lecture once in the British Library, in a series about conservation of documents and records. The speaker was an American military researcher. He was endearing, open and delighted to tell us about his skills. He spent his time retrieving hard disks from dumps and painstakingly storing the data of conversations and communications. He said he could assemble a complete record of all the possible communications between a whole community \u2013 a town, a city. He told us how very easy it was to crack into even the most complex saved information. Some of his audience \u2013 the younger, on the whole \u2013 found this exciting. Some like me were horrified. Patrick Flanery's title is riddling and perfectly chosen. It means several things at once. His central character (hardly a hero) suspects that he is the object of intense surveillance for which there is no reason \u2013 he is no one of any political or social importance. He is Jeremy O'Keefe, an American academic who has spent time teaching in Oxford and conveys a transatlantic uncertainty in his speech and habits. He is divorced, with an American daughter, and finds it hard to form new relationships. He receives a series of anonymous packages which turn out to contain printed records of all his contacts and messages. Someone is treating him as though he is someone. Who? And why? Flanery has taken a big risk in telling Jeremy's tale in the first person. Jeremy is a kind of social and emotional nonentity, who shows only a limited interest in the life of the mind, and only an inhibited interest in other people. He is vaguely anxious and not very likable. The reader cannot either feel with him or dislike him. But Flanery is a master of puzzling, alarming and even terrifying storytelling. As Jeremy's predicament intensifies \u2013 watchers across the road, followers in the street, interference with his appointments, at one point a lost mobile phone rediscovered in the refrigerator with the message \"phones listen\" on its screen \u2013 we realise that Jeremy's plight is at least in part an aspect of a much larger one. We live in a time where there is no longer any privacy. Everything is recorded and shared, permanently available to those who pry or, as they may think of it, research. Jeremy has a conversation with his possible follower, who may be a friend or a foe, about recording his students' habits \u2013 reading, writing, seminar attendance. During this Jeremy bursts out passionately: Frankly it [digital tracking of students] gives me chills. Privacy is the last thing we have. Privacy with a book most of all. When I sit down and read a book I don't want anyone else to know how long it's taken me to read a page, what I've written about it, whether I've skimmed a paragraph too quickly to recall its contents clearly. You're imagining a world where even thought is a matter of public record. It's grotesque. One of the pleasures of reading Flanery is the tussle between ways of understanding the shapes of stories and language. He mixes, to quote an interview he gave, \"expressionism, symbolism, surrealism\" into what he calls \"critical realism\" \u2013 he writes realist novels which show their awareness that realism is a self-conscious form like others. Reviewers have described his novels as thrillers, which is never quite right \u2013 but there are parts of the story that stand out as thrilling, next to other parts that are meditative, and others that are psychologically baffling. Readers are constantly seeking to work out what sort of writing they are reading. For instance, many of the chapters end with the kind of statement \u2013 \"As you will see, I had things to find out \u2026 \" \u2013 that suggests the construction of a thriller and doesn't quite fit with what has gone on before. His life is further complicated by an uncertain relationship, in Oxford, with an Egyptian woman from a powerful family. He has edged into a world of real secret onlooking. When we learn \u2013 late into the story \u2013 the subject of Jeremy's research, our ideas shift again. He has published extensively on the surveillance by the Stasi in East Germany, who made those they were investigating \u2013 almost everyone \u2013 into reluctant investigators of each other. Moreover he tells us that his obsession with privacy derives from a childhood desperation about bathroom privacy. He is, it turns out, \"not just a neurotic, but one of the world's leading experts on surveillance\". Some of the things he tells us conflict with other stories he has told. We are even less sure what kind of stories we are being told. \u2022 I am No One by Patrick Flanery (Atlantic Books, \u00a312.99). To order a copy for \u00a310.39, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&amp;p of \u00a31.99."
}