{
  "tags": [
    "culture/television",
    "tv-and-radio/tv-and-radio",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "title": "TV review: Wonderland - A Dad is Born",
  "lead": "A menace on the road, a hippy in the home, writes Sam Wollaston",
  "words": null,
  "id": "tv-and-radio/2012/feb/16/wonderland-dad-is-born-review",
  "core-words": null,
  "class": false,
  "content": "I'd like to report Greg Secker to the police, for dangerous driving. More specifically, deliberate and dangerous distraction, in Greg's case using a mobile phone and a laptop computer. If the police weren't watching the programme then they'll find all the evidence they need for a successful conviction on iPlayer. There's also plenty of evidence that Greg is a wazzock, but sadly being a wazzock isn't a crime in the eyes of the law, I don't think. Who is Greg Secker? He's a multi-millionaire trader, an entrepreneur, and a motivational speaker. Possibly a juicer as well. \"I mean there I am with the speakers day after day, training and training those guys to squeeze the orange,\" he says, driving his black Lamborghini, number plate PRO5PER. \"But the guys that are filling up the orange juicer aren't chucking enough oranges in.\" What is he on about? You'd think a motivational speaker would speak more sense. Maybe he's the man from Del Monte too. Anyway, he's cross, and needs to replace an entire department. \"So many people want a fucking easy life, and they don't realise they're robbing themselves, because you know, if you're slack, you become a slacker.\" Yeah Greg, and if you talk toss, you become a tosser. Anyway, as well as being \u2013 or because he is \u2013 a wazzock (or tosser \u2013 insert perjorative term of choice), Greg is obviously absolutely fascinating. I could have easily watched a whole documentary just about him. But he just happens to be one of the three subjects of Wonderland: A Dad is Born (BBC2), a film about what happens to men when they become fathers. Greg, and his new girlfriend Cathy, are having a baby. By elected C section of course, at the private Portland Hospital. So perhaps the other guys in Kira Phillips's boyz-II-men study will make it more representative? Hmmm ... possibly. There's Viktor, a sexist Hungarian minicab driver. \"I used to have a feeling like every women it's mine, I'm just not able to use all of them, or do all of them,\" he says. A psychoanalyst might link this need to love and to be loved by everyone to Viktor's rejection and abuse by his own alcoholic father, I imagine. Anyway, Viktor's going to change, now that girlfriend Melinda is about to give birth. He will now devote himself exclusively to her and the baby. Which is coming! At the much more normal Newham general hospital. And poor Viktor, macho Jack the lad only a few minutes ago, is a gibbering wreck, overcome by procreation. And then there's Jamie, a nervous recruitment consultant, who's reading lots of books on how to be a dad. He's the most normal, and the least interesting of the three. Good dad material doesn't mean good television material. He's crying too, a few days after his baby is born, but these are a different kind of tears to Viktor's \u2013 they're more about tiredness, trying-to-keep-things-together tears. He's a funny mixture of overwhelmed and underwhelmed by the whole experience. \"When does it all kick in?\" he asks. \"I don't feel like a dad.\" Perhaps he was over-prepared. His new daughter, possibly picking up on the anticlimactic feeling around the place, is more interested in the giraffes hanging on the mobile than she is in her father. No, it's not a cross-section of society, nor very representative. It's still absolutely fascinating though, a lovely film about three men going through the most extraordinary moment of their lives. There's a noticeable change in all of them. Most spectacular is Viktor. Look, he's now vacuuming, changing nappies, doing everything around the house; he's gone from being Sid the Sexist to New Man practically overnight. Even Greg shows some sign of mellowing. He's got his little boy on him. \"Every time he lays on my chest, you get this like sense of like, karmic sea, you know, wash over you, there's this lovely sort of bliss,\" he says. Ahh, he's a big hippy underneath it all. Maybe he'll stop being such a menace on the roads now. I didn't feel an enormous affinity to any of them, to be honest. No reason why I should really. Except there is, a bit, and I did watch this film with more than a passing interest. I'm in a similar kind of position too, this is all happening to me. Due ... well, any day now. Maybe I'll become nicer too."
}