{
  "tags": [
    "tv-and-radio/the-crimson-petal-and-the-white",
    "tv-and-radio/tv-and-radio",
    "culture/culture",
    "culture/television"
  ],
  "title": "The Crimson Petal and the White: episode three",
  "lead": "Sarah Dempster: The richest, darkest and most powerful episode to date ends with Agnes almost certainly heading for Doom-on-Sea",
  "words": null,
  "id": "tv-and-radio/tvandradioblog/2011/apr/20/the-crimson-petal-episode-three",
  "core-words": null,
  "class": false,
  "content": "Sarah Dempster's episode two blog \"This is Miss Sugar, our new governess. I hope, I trust, she will be happy here \u2026\" While ineffectual housemaid Letty reached for her suitcase, Sugar gulped and scratched her psoriasis. The resulting confetti cloud of dead skin was as close to a celebration as the welcome party would get, but the lack of enthusiasm mattered not. As Sophie Rackham's live-in governess, Sugar had finally secured for herself a respectable position in society. The implications were enormous. There would be no more humiliating solo luncheons in chilly high-end tearooms. No more desperate afternoon upendings in her airless Marylebone apartment \u2013 William pounding frantically at her bustle with his britches around his ankles while she calculated the printing costs for the latest Rackham Perfumery catalogue. Instead, here was respectability! Responsibility! A marginally less degrading setting in which to exchange pre-arranged sexual favours for accommodation and perfunctory employment! In Chepstow Villas, all transactions would be conducted under the society-approved awning of William's astonishing new moustache. Ergo: huzzah! Nevertheless, it was with trepidation that Sugar crept into the oppressive stillness of the Rackham family residence, where the walls, we discovered, are the colour of liver and the endless corridors snake like veins into clotted darkness. Upstairs, a stream of muffled bumps and whimpers suggested Agnes's Holy Suffering was approaching a climax. On a visit into town, she'd shared her Convent of Health\u2122 fantasies with Mrs Fox, whose black veil could conceal only so many grimaces. \"They have provided me with an angel escort\", whispered Agnes of her nonexistent benefactors. They were coming to take her away, ha-haaa, and the resulting sojourn did not sound entirely dissimilar to a Champneys Wellbeing Break, frankly, albeit with ad hoc levitating sessions and selfless hallucinatory nuns rather than mini-pedicures and NVQ Beauty Therapy graduates yawning in tabards. Elsewhere, Agnes's daughter was channelling her loneliness into nightly bedwetting sessions. \"You must not worry,\" soothed Sugar, before gently and brilliantly easing her young charge into a restorative programme of story-reading sessions, cuddles, gardening and lessons in modern feminism (\"Women can do all sorts of things these days, Sophie \u2026\") Of all the activities she has turned her blotchy hand to, who would have thought it would be exemplary childcare that would prove Sugar's forte? While the pair gambolled, William's MO continued to swing from endearing fecklessness to infuriatingly self-involved bastardry \u2013 the emotional tumult culminating in a scene in which he sprang sobbing, unasked-for sex on his wife as she lay mumbling and bleeding in a drugged, semi-conscious stupor (\"I didn't mean to hurt you that first time \u2026\") Phwoar! \"I need to know I'm not a monster,\" he snivelled later to Sugar as another layer of permafrost audibly welded itself to her heart. Such self-pity doubtless provided her with an extra incentive to facilitate Agnes's escape. Which, the night before Mrs Rackham was due to check in at Doctor Curlew's Asylum for the Terminally Misdiagnosed, she duly did. We left poor Agnes hobbling off into the night, bonce freshly shorn and face a picture of tentative, childlike excitement. At the train station, she surveyed with wonder the array of available destinations, although, clearly, it scarcely mattered which one she chose as, for Agnes, all routes were almost certainly heading straight for Doom-on-Sea. It was a desperately sad end to the richest, darkest and most powerful episode to date. So. What fate might await Agnes, Sugar et al in next week's finale? Your thoughts, observations, hopes and fears below, if you will."
}