{
  "tags": [
    "science/cloning",
    "science/science",
    "science/genetics",
    "science/agriculture",
    "science/biology"
  ],
  "title": "Dolly woz here: the world's most famous sheep gets a blue plaque",
  "lead": "The Roslin Institute in Edinburgh, where Dolly spent her whole life, is to be presented with a sign to commemorate its contribution to advances in the science of cloning",
  "words": null,
  "id": "science/2015/feb/23/dolly-woz-here-worlds-most-famous-sheep-blue-plaque",
  "core-words": null,
  "class": false,
  "content": "Name: Dolly the sheep. Age: For ever six-and-a-half. Appearance: A tiny, woollen Jurassic Park. A cloned sheep! Why would you ever want to clone a sheep? Don't all sheep look the same? Look, can I stop you there? Just because Dolly the sheep is in the news again doesn't mean that you can get away with recycling the same lazy scraps of quasi-observational almost-comedy that didn't really work the last time she was in the news. Fine. What has Dolly done now that's so special? Well, nothing. She's dead. She's dead? God, I loved that sheep. #RIPDolly. No, no, no, she's been dead for years. Don't start grieving her now. She isn't Tony Hart. Then why are we talking about her again? Has she Frankensteined up out of the ground? Is there a zombie Frankenstein sheep-clone roaming the moors now? Should we all stay inside? It's nothing that exciting, sorry. She has earned herself a blue plaque. Oh. But that's still quite exciting. The plaque will be installed at the Roslin Institute at the University of Edinburgh \u2013 her place of birth \u2013 to for ever commemorate the important role she played in the advancement of science. But aren't blue plaques supposed to recognise artists and poets and great thinkers? The traditional English Heritage plaques are, but this one has been organised by the Society of Biology, which is doling out 10 plaques to celebrate \"the eminent and sometimes unsung heroes of biology\". Besides, Dolly is so much more impressive than all those other recipients. She is? Sure. After all, Dame Myra Hess has a blue plaque, but all she ever did was play the piano. Dolly, meanwhile, conclusively taught us that God is dead and humanity is the ultimate master of its own destruction. Is that what her plaque is going to say? I'm afraid not. It will read: \"Dolly the sheep, 1996-2003. First mammal to be cloned from an adult cell.\" That doesn't seem quite as punchy. It doesn't, does it? Perhaps if we all cobble together we can get it added as a postscript. That or \"Do dinosaurs next!\" Do say: \"Finally, Dolly is receiving the proper credit that she deserves.\" Don't say: \"Now let's extend that credit to her new husband in cloned-animal heaven, that mouse with the ear on its back.\""
}