{
  "tags": [
    "books/publishing",
    "books/books",
    "world/censorship",
    "world/world",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "title": "How can a book fair make Saudi Arabia 'guest of honour'?",
  "lead": "Alice Guthrie: Book World Prague 2011 has laid on a lavish welcome for Saudi Arabia, but there's scant room for the writers the Saudi government persecutes",
  "words": null,
  "id": "books/booksblog/2011/may/16/book-fair-saudi-arabia",
  "core-words": null,
  "class": false,
  "content": "At Book World Prague 2011, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is the \"guest of honour\". But guest, in this context, actually means high-paying client: an oppressive regime hoping to buy itself some cultural legitimacy with its petrodollars. And honour? Given the dismal Saudi Arabian record on freedom of speech and other human rights, honour basically means shame. Under the soft rainbow colours of an arching art nouveau roof, the Saudis have erected a huge and lavish stand, in the form of a turreted (and carpeted) mock fortress, replete with scale models of Mecca and Medina, children's play area, some blonde women in Saudi costumes, and plenty of individually plastic-wrapped dates for all. There are even a few books, presumably as a concession to this being a book fair \u2013 and one or two of them are literary titles. But where are the Saudi writers? That the little-known Abdullah Al-Nasir was the only Saudi author on the programme of events who made it to Prague serves as the regime's most eloquent comment. It seems that despite the desire to represent the Kingdom as a literary culture, it is not celebrating actual Saudi writing. The Saudi author who is most conspicuous by his absence, Jeddah native Abdo Khal, won the 2010 IPAF prize for Spewing Sparks as Big as Castles, his searingly critical allegory of the criminal rule of a corrupt super-rich oligarchy. Given that Khal's books are banned in his home country it would be naive to expect the regime to invite him here \u2013 or him to accept such an invitation. But given that Saudi writers have won the IPAF for two consecutive years now, their complete absence from the fair is hard to explain. Thanks to the dedication of Literature Across Frontiers, the European platform for literary exchange that works tirelessly to promote intercultural dialogue, there are several Arab authors here. There are many fascinating and illuminating debates \u2013 both on and off the stage \u2013 with these pan-Arab guests, guests in the original sense of the word, many of them blazing with the true honour of ongoing revolutionary involvement. Their talk turns repeatedly to revolution, in all its senses \u2013 regime change, paradigm shift, toppling the dominant father, the censor, the auto-censor, the harasser, and challenging the dominant narratives that keep Arab identity confined to the all-too-familiar tropes. Literary censorship and artistic freedom are of course central issues in the daily lives of many Arab writers, even with the Arab spring in full bloom. For Egyptian writers such as Mansoura Ez Edin, the giddy prospect of the revolution being completed and delivering a progressive and democratic regime that allows true freedom of expression is still a dream, and almost too much to hope for. For others, such as Iraqi Hassan Blassim, pan-Arab publishing censorship has meant that his work has still only been published online in Arabic \u2013 despite the English translations of his work, published by Comma Press, earning him much praise. During a depressing session on literary and press censorship by the Index On Censorship team, the question of international book fair sponsorship by repressive regimes is explored. Given the prospect of London International Book Fair hosting China as \"Market Focus\" in 2012, current Index editor Jo Glanville is clear that this issue must be tackled head-on, and the magazine's founding editor Michael Scammell refers to the attempt by authoritarian regimes to whitewash their outrageous human rights record via book fair attendance as a \"sinister trend\". For Maghrebi-Dutch Abdelkader Benali, whose Dutch writing is published free of censorship in Holland, the sight of the mock Saudi fortress here is a painful reminder of the repression so many of his colleagues are suffering across the Arab world, whether in stable regimes like Saudi Arabia that are not currently being rocked by protests, or as part of the brutal crackdown on the many uprisings elsewhere. The whole Arab literary community is keenly aware of the Syrians who are currently in hiding, for example, fearing for their lives, as a result of having taken an anti-regime stance in their writing. For Benali, any European city \"hosting a regime that is against literature\" therefore gives the message to the Arab world that \"in Europe, we are on the side of the oppressors\". And of course this is not just any European city, this is Prague. \"The Arab media will pick up on this,\" stresses Benali, \"and they will be asking why the Czechs, who were at the forefront of the revolt against the Soviet Union less than 30 years ago, and who know so well what it is to be oppressed and deprived of freedom of expression, are calmly hosting a regime which is against any form of free expression.\" In the middle of the most significant revolutionary moment since 1989, in the middle of one of the most iconic revolutionary cities in Europe, is the hijacking of literary culture for use as instant kudos by the distinctly anti-literary regime of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia really acceptable? And in the broader context of this as a growing trend, the question that the shameful Saudi presence here in Prague really poses is whether we are simply being naive by expecting the international book fair scene to promote writers and books, rather than high-paying despotic regimes."
}