{
  "tags": [
    "politics/andrewlansley",
    "politics/health",
    "society/alcohol",
    "society/smoking",
    "society/health",
    "politics/ann-widdecombe",
    "politics/conservatives",
    "politics/politics",
    "society/society",
    "uk/uk",
    "business/regulators",
    "business/tobacco-industry",
    "business/fooddrinks",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "title": "Andrew Lansley promises radical new approach to public health",
  "lead": "Health secretary admits that state intervention is sometimes necessary to protect people from themselves",
  "words": null,
  "id": "politics/2010/nov/28/andrew-lansley-health-reforms",
  "core-words": null,
  "class": false,
  "content": "Tobacco companies could be forced to put their cigarettes in plain packaging while sales of cut-price alcohol face a ban, health secretary Andrew Lansley confirmed today. While Lansley has shown a pro-market approach in his NHS reforms, he admitted on BBC1's Andrew Marr Show that state intervention is sometimes necessary to protect people from themselves. His public health white paper, to be launched on Tuesday, will offer a raft of proposals that range from the voluntary to \"nudges\" in the right direction to outright changes in the law. Although he said he was not keen on regulation, \"we have tried a lot of things and we do need occasionally to intervene. But more than that we need to support people. Especially some of the poorest in our society need to have the greatest support because health inequalities are too wide. \"We need to deliver improvements in the health of the poorest in this country the fastest.\" But former Tory MP Ann Widdicombe, also on the Andrew Marr Show, began the backlash from the right by attacking a proposal to encourage businesses to set aside time and space for female staff to breastfeed. \"It is not appropriate for the state to micromanage our lives as they are doing,\" she said, complaining that the measures would damage business. \"Women have been having children for donkeys years and still working,\" she said. The department of health refers to such precedents as seat belt legislation and uses the example of the ban on smoking in public places to demonstrate that legislation can lead to dramatic public health improvements. But with cigarettes, Lansley justifies the resort to the law by the need to safeguard the health of young people, rather than adults. There are 80,000 tobacco-related deaths a year in this country, he said, and there was a need to deter young people from picking up the habit. There was a need to establish whether \"if young people are in a situation where brands and tobacco are being pushed to them in their local supermarkets and stores, they are more likely to start smoking,\" he said. Australia, he pointed out, had already gone down this route. The Conservatives promised a ban on low-cost alcohol in their manifesto, but it has not been clear whether or how this would happen. The white paper looks likely to suggest minimum pricing, which public health experts have strongly urged. It was suggested in the Sunday Telegraph that the formula could be the cost of duty plus the sales tax. This would lead to minimum prices of \u00a310.50 a litre for spirits, \u00a38.50 for a pack of 20 beers and \u00a32 for a bottle of wine. Lansley says his white paper will offer a radical new approach to public health, which has struggled against a tide of rising obesity rates \u2013 Britain has one of the highest in Europe \u2013 drinking, smoking and sexual health problems. His answer is to ring-fence spending on public health, which experts in the field have long wanted. Public health budgets have been raided in the past to pay for expensive hospital care. Directors of public health, based in local authorities, will have charge of the budgets and decide their local priorities and there will be incentive payments for reducing health inequalities, such as reducing the proportions of the poorest who smoke. A Health Inclusion Board is to be set up, which will probe the causes of deprivation and look at ways to tackle them. Among other specific interventions, the government will get behind schemes to encourage children to walk to school. The white paper will flag one that rewards schoolchildren with points that can be exchanged for shopping tokens or cinema tickets. Each child will have a plastic card that they must swipe on each of a series of card-readers on their way to school, attached to lamp-posts or other fixed points."
}