{
  "tags": [
    "politics/pr",
    "politics/davidcameron",
    "politics/politics"
  ],
  "title": "Our voting system needs a radical overhaul | Editorial",
  "lead": "Editorial: The current system fails to return parliaments that represent, in a proportionate fashion, the views of the electorate",
  "words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/jul/26/uk-voting-system-overhaul",
  "core-words": null,
  "class": false,
  "content": "Many MPs hope that, by passing the Parliamentary Standards Bill last week, they might have put the expenses scandal behind them. They are wrong. The Standards Act was a queasy response to public rage that was fired by more than distaste for petty corruption. That anger described a dangerous gulf between the elite and the people who, in theory, confer a governing mandate. It revealed a crisis of representation. The single most vital reform that should come out of such a crisis would be to elect future parliaments on the principle of proportional representation; to make every vote count. The Observer reveals today that the government is considering holding a referendum on electoral reform to coincide with a general election. The notion is a good one, although the motive behind it is not entirely idealistic. Some Labour strategists argue that a campaign on changing the voting mechanism would make it hard for David Cameron, a fan of the current system, to present himself as a candidate of change. Others point out that the glaring lack of subtlety to such a gambit would be counterproductive. Labour could debase the call for reform by making it a scheme to outmanoeuvre the Tories. Any referendum would probably offer some variant of the alternative vote system. Under AV, current constituency boundaries would remain, but voters would number candidates in order of preference instead of simply marking a cross by their first choice. So, once second and third choices are taken into account, the winner generally has a stronger mandate than under the current system. But AV still doesn't allocate parliamentary seats in line with the parties' national share of the vote. A better system is the single transferable vote, where voters also give numerical preferences, but a number of seats are awarded per constituency. That way, MPs are still bound to represent a fixed locality, but the final make-up of Parliament is an accurate reflection of national opinion. The technical arcana of voting systems can be offputting. But the underlying principle is simple: under the current system, governments are formed by parties that have not won a majority of votes and owe victory to fewer than 200,000 people in marginal constituencies; millions of ballots are wasted; those who cast them are disenfranchised. So what are the objections to reform? Mr Cameron is enthusiastic about the status quo mainly because it is poised to make him prime minister. But the Conservatives also have theoretical quibbles with PR. The main one is that it tends to lead to coalition government. That, say the Tories, is undemocratic because coalitions are stitched together in behind-the-scenes deals. But in most western democracies, the conditions that parties lay down before forming coalitions are quite explicit. Meanwhile, plenty of Westminster votes are arranged in murky tea room conspiracies. Another objection to PR is that it leads to instability. If no party has an outright majority, small parties can hold governments to ransom. But plenty of countries that use PR are run by stable coalitions. It is true that minority parties can have powerful leverage, but that is often a more honest manifestation of something that already happens at Westminster. What were the serial rebellions by Labour MPs against Tony Blair if not ructions within a coalition? On the opposite benches, David Cameron is so afraid of losing votes to Ukip that, on matters of EU policy, he might as well be in coalition with a fringe party. There is no perfect voting system. But some are ultimately more democratic than others. The current one continually fails to return parliaments that represent, in a proportionate fashion, the views of the electorate. It is time the British people were asked whether or not they think that is fair."
}