{
  "tags": [],
  "title": "Cif gets in-depth and personal | Natalie Hanman",
  "lead": "Natalie Hanman: Talking shop: From long-form articles to personal pieces about the cuts, we've recently been presenting comment in new ways",
  "words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2010/nov/08/cif-long-form-personal",
  "core-words": null,
  "class": false,
  "content": "We publish a lot of content on Comment is free every day, and even our most dedicated readers must sometimes find it hard to keep up. So I just wanted to flag up a few things we've done recently that you might have missed: \u2022 Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian's editor, recently introduced our new long-form series with some thoughts on the future of the fourth estate. In this experimental series, which we have called Work in progress, we are giving writers the space to tackle a subject in depth, over a longer period of time, hopefully drawing on the expertise and input of our readers and maybe involving readers in their research process a bit more. It is inspired partly in response to Nick Carr's book The Shallows, which argues that the internet is eroding our capacity to think deeply, and partly as a way of tapping into the growing online world of long-form journalism. There were more than 300 comments on Rusbridger's initial article \u2013 including, most recently, contributions from the founder of openDemocracy, Anthony Barnett, and technology reporter Mercedes Bunz. He is currently reviewing all of them and will, in the near future, publish a long-form article ahead of a media lecture he is giving in Australia this month. Those interested in the theme he is exploring might also like to read excerpts of an interview he gave to ABC Radio journalist Mark Colville, which touches on News Corporation's paywall and WikiLeaks. You can also listen to the interview online. \u2022 For the past few months we have been running a series called The cuts get personal, in which Cif commenters and contributors write about the government's cuts agenda and how it affects their lives. We have had some fascinating contributions \u2013 I urge you to read them, and to contact us at opinion@theguardian.com if you think you might like to take part. As I have argued before, I think this is a really important, and enlightening, way of covering an issue such as the cuts, alongside the political and policy angles we will continue to mine in depth. \u2022 Most Mondays, we publish a Cif video in our People and power series , where we interview top thinkers in a talking-head style \u2013 today's is with the wonderful H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Cixous. I am keen to continue experimenting with different multimedia projects such as this, and the John Harris election and party conferences videos, as I think they can really bring certain debates, and voices, to life. As ever, I'd welcome your thoughts. Who should we invite to participate in the long-form series next? Who should we interview for People and power? And have you enjoyed \u2013 if that's the right word \u2013 the personal stories on the cuts?"
}