{
  "content": "Almost a full seven days from his Labour leadership victory, I am stunned that we have yet to see the first story about someone getting a Jeremy Corbyn tattoo. Still, Corbyn tattoos are coming. In Scotland there is a woman whose calf bears the inked visage of Alex Salmond, above two clenched fists whose knuckles are themselves inscribed \u2013 in a tattoo-within-a-tattoo \u2013 with Saor Alba (Free Scotland). In Derbyshire there is a woman with Nigel Farage's face tattooed on her biceps. To anyone toying with investing in some Corbyn body art, I'd say: pile in. The exposure is always generous, and there's probably a bonus if you do it Millwall-style on the inside of your bottom lip. Political tattoos are very new politics. And should you politely counter that statement by pointing out, for example, that street gangs have long had what amount to political tattoos, you would very much be old politics. Consequently, I would despise you. It was Nancy Mitford who brought a glossary of U and non-U terms to public attention in a deadpan 1954 essay drawing upon the work of the linguist Alan SC Ross. With mischievous lightness of touch, she hacked social chasms between terms such as \"vegetables\" (U) and \"greens\" (non-U), marooning the non-U on the wrong side of the abyss. Mitford's infinitely more humourless heirs \u2013 rather oddly, given what I imagine they'd think of her \u2013 can be found in the angrier fringes of the various new politics firms: the Kippers, the cybernats, the Corbynistas. They may be divided in their beliefs, but they are united by a mania for pigeonholing. We now have New, and non-New. All public statements, all things in the world, and most especially all people, must be deemed either for them or against them, and worshipped or demonised accordingly. There is no appeals procedure. Mitford and Ross found the middle classes rather prissily given to euphemism while the aristocracy declined to draw a doily over things. False teeth were U, dentures were non-U. Dying was U, passing on was non-U. New and non-New politics is much the same. The ghastly non-New lot will murmur squeamishly of \"disagreements about facts\", whereas one has to be New to know that the smart thing to scream is: \"Smear!\" There really is nothing more non-New than finicky little gradations, from far right to centre right through centre left and so on. This sort of thing is literally as unforgivable as saying serviette instead of napkin. All of the aforementioned people are Tory scum. They belong to whichever \"establishment\" is at the top of the tree this week \u2013 the banker one, the immigrant one or the English one. There is us, and there is them. Just as some sharks must always be swimming forward, so the New politics must be constantly excluding. Classifying in order to exclude can be almost a full-time job. A single tweet expressing admiration or distaste for something or other requires a New politics operative to seek it out, insert themselves into the conversation, and explain that either or both parties have been classified as \"liberal scum\". The classification is terminal. (Liberal now means Tory, FYI. It's the toilet of the New politics, in a Mitfordian sense; and, apparently, a literal one.) What the New politics needs is a Peter York figure who can bring out a tenuously ironic Official New Politics Handbook, modelled after its Sloane Ranger ancestor. That earlier work identified one characteristic of the Sloane tribe as an innate confidence allied to a blithe anti-intellectualism. The New politics, as framed by its loudest and most bullishly irrational voices, must be viewed as that strain's latest incarnation. As far as charting the history of our rapidly calcifying political tribalism goes, there will be some debate about the first New politics moment of the modern era. But for my money it is George Dubya Bush's 2001 decree that \"You're either with us or against us,\" which cleverly trumpeted the death of nuance, and ushered in 14 years and counting of rolling examples as to why Manichaeism is always the right answer. Of all the non-New things these days, meanwhile, I see more and more evidence that jokes are very much up there. Indeed, a \"joke\" is another of those horribly d\u00e9class\u00e9 euphemisms for a smear. The decidedly non-New Private Eye editor, Ian Hislop, observes to Press Gazette this week: \"There are a lot of people who've discovered politics recently but haven't got the idea that \u2013 in the world of politics \u2013 it's possible for the opposition A) to have a point and B) to offer criticism. So a lot of Ukippers cancelled their subscriptions earlier in the year because they thought the jokes about Ukip were not funny and not fair. This was followed by a very similar vein of Scots Nats saying: 'These jokes aren't funny, and they're not fair.' And I think we're about to get the Corbynistas, that'll be the next wave saying: 'You've no idea what you're talking about.' A different sort of politics has just arrived \u2013 whether it's Farage or Sturgeon or Corbyn. And any criticism \u2013 and certainly any jokes \u2013 are not welcome.\" As for what will replace jokes in the new culture, who knows? Maybe some gritty low-budget British movies modelled on all the ones about football firms, which offered a sense of belonging and exhilaration and arbitrary them-and-ussery for men looking for armies to join, but who have sadly been driven miles from the stadiums in the Premier League era. Perhaps \"firms\" can be neither created nor destroyed in British life: they must simply mutate. Could Danny Dyer play one of the Kipper Riot Squad? I think so. Or how about a West End musical entitled My Fair Cybernat, in which some non-New guttersnipe who hails from the absolute depths of \"I think you'll find it's a bit more complicated than that\" is trained up and passed off as a frothingly insult-happy internet warrior. As for Corbyn's fervently expressed desire to make Westminster \u2013 almost universally derided as out of touch \u2013 more civilised, I genuinely wish him well with it. The irony is that success in that regard will only make Westminster even more out of touch, because away from the pomp and the palace, politics is becoming markedly less civilised, and increasingly driven by an irrational emotionalism that threatens \u2013 often literally \u2013 to spill over into mindless violence. Or political body art.",
  "title": "Ukippers, cybernats, Corbynistas \u2013 are you with me? If not, I despise you  | Marina Hyde",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/politics",
    "politics/jeremy-corbyn",
    "politics/labour",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "politics/conservatives",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "The new political tribes have a mania for pigeonholing. There's scant hope of honest debate \u2013 or even a good joke",
  "id": "commentisfree/2015/sep/18/ukippers-corbynistas-new-political-tribes-mania-pigeonholing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}