{
  "content": "MySpace is to launch a big push for its advertising offering, including plans for a DIY service that will rival Google's AdSense system. The News Corporation-owned social networking website is also opening up an extensive targeting trial to new brands in the US. MySpace has been running a targeted trial since July, which categorises users according to the information on their profiles and assigns advertising accordingly. Advertisers can now use Hypertargeting by MySpace to direct their ads to more than 100 groups and sub-groups of MySpace users including gaming, sports, travel, consumer electronics and music. MySpace has also announced plans for a self-serve advertising system that would allow users to design, launch and analyse their own advertising campaigns on the site. Travis Katz, the MySpace international managing director, admitted that the system is based on the same concept as Google's lucrative AdSense system, but said it is still a different product. \"AdSense was the first targeted advertising product that was open to everyone, and tapped the long tail,\" Mr Katz added. \"It showed that you don't have to be a huge company to buy media space, you could be a small start-up, a pizza place or a band. We're taking the same concept but it's not just text based.\" Launching early next year, SelfServe by MySpace will allow advertisers to create ads using their own logos, graphics and images, and will provide a built-in analytics system to measure the performance of the ad. Meanwhile, more than 50 advertisers have signed up the first phase of the Hypertargeting by MySpace platform including Ford, Toyota and Procter &amp; Gamble. The platform is being rolled out in the US today and will be extended to English-speaking territories in January. MySpace claims that brands involved in the targeted advertising trial have seen response rates increase by 300% for some campaigns. Mr Katz said the company has had more than 100 people working on the system for the past year, which was now \"delivering the promise\". \"It's a very sophisticated technical engine that looks at all the publicly available data on users, groups and the interests of their friends,\" he added. \"For advertisers, it's [delivering on] the promise that internet advertising has always been, and users, who have been involved in the testing, like targeted advertising better than generic ads. They don't like untargeted ads because they feel more intrusive, whereas if ads are relevant and of interest to them they enjoy them.\" The targeting of advertising on social networks has caused concern among some users, who do not want their personal data used by advertisers and are concerned about privacy. Mr Katz said he believed only a small number of people are concerned about targeted ads, and added the system will allow users to opt out. MySpace's UK office now has more than 130 staff but, Mr Katz said, the company is \"hiring so fast I can't keep count\". \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "MySpace challenges Google for ads",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/web20",
    "media/advertising",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/myspace",
    "media/media",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "MySpace is to launch a big push for its advertising offering, including plans for a DIY service. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "technology/2007/nov/05/myspace.advertising",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}