{
  "content": "Is there a legitimate demand for the use of live, text-based communications from the courtroom? That's one of the questions that the Judicial Office for England and Wales is asking in a new consultation paper. Because I spent a couple of days this week sending tweets from the courtroom where Julian Assange is challenging extradition to Sweden \u2013 and as I started writing this in court when the evidence started to get rather dull \u2013 my affirmative answer to this question will surprise nobody. After all, if you were looking for the most appropriate case to launch the Twitter era of court reporting, you couldn't do better than Assange. It's not just the international appetite for news of the case, particularly among those with an interest in electronic communications. It's not just the evidence we heard that one of Assange's alleged victims had deleted tweets that were helpful to the defendant. It's that reporters covering an extradition case enjoy all the advantages of court reporting and none of the downsides: accurate reports are privileged against libel but there is no risk of prejudicing a British jury. So while reporters from the Guardian and elsewhere have been providing valuable running news reports on the evidence, I have tried to give my followers more of an impression of who was winning the argument. I even offered the occasional comment. When Bj\u00f6rn Hurtig, Assange's Swedish lawyer, alleged from the witness box that Swedish prosecutors had leaked information to the press about the WikiLeaks founder, I ventured that he had no sense of irony. There was an immediate response from someone who said: \"It's not terribly difficult to argue that individuals should be allowed privacy protection and governments should not.\" I tweeted back that WikiLeaks had breached the privacy of individuals, arguing that even those who worked for governments had a right to privacy. All this was going on while the witness was still giving evidence. That was not a problem in this case \u2013 professional judges are presumed not to be influenced by tweets or even pieces such as this \u2013 but it could certainly have been seen by a jury if Assange was being tried on charges of breaking the Official Secrets Act. And it exposes the fundamental difficulty inherent in controlling Twitter. As the consultation paper frankly acknowledges, even if a journalist tweeting from a courtroom has complied with the requirements of the Contempt of Court Act 1981, \"other users of Twitter may respond to these posts by posting or linking to prejudicial material or commentary which would not be admissible in court\". And that, of course, assumes that the only people tweeting from court are trained journalists who understand the requirements of \"fair and accurate reporting\". The paper wrestles with the problem of access to Twitter in the courtroom, suggesting at one point that the only people in court allowed to use mobile devices might be those in the press seats. But who would they be? The family courts are already familiar with the concept of \"accredited journalists\" \u2013 those with a recognised press card. But the courts also know that journalism is not a profession: the right to freedom of expression demands that anyone can profess to be a journalist. As the paper says: \"Student newspapers, bloggers and social commentators may wish to engage in live, text-based communications from court but would not necessarily have media accreditation.\" They could apply to the judge for accreditation on a case-by-case basis, as they may in the family courts. But they could not be presumed to have the same appreciation as accredited journalists of the legal framework surrounding court reporting or the industry standards set by the Press Complaints Commission (PCC). Instant reporting without self-restraint is more likely to produce prejudicial reporting. There is only one answer to this problem and the wider risk of prejudice inherent in the internet. Without relaxing our contempt laws, we must simply acknowledge that there is an increasing risk that juries will have read and seen things that are prejudicial to defendants they are trying. Judges must put much greater emphasis than they do now on explaining to juries why they are required to try cases only on the evidence they hear in court. Just as we no longer sequester juries in hotels while they are deliberating, we should no longer pretend that we can protect juries from being influenced through modern communications. Twitter has become a form of public broadcasting \u2013 as the PCC has acknowledged \u2013 and there is nothing the courts can do to stop it. Joshua Rozenberg is a freelance legal writer, commentator and broadcaster",
  "title": "The Twitter era of court reporting is here, despite the risk of prejudice | Joshua Rozenberg",
  "lead": "Joshua Rozenberg: Judges must put greater emphasis on explaining to juries what evidence they should base their verdict on",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/julian-assange",
    "media/medialaw",
    "law/uk-supreme-court",
    "law/law",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "law/2011/feb/09/twitter-court-reporting-stays",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}