{
  "content": "That careless fellow Jack Straw, who has just been ticked off for failing to list a donation with the register of members' interest, is no more diligent when it comes to the proposals contained in the coroners and justice bill that will allow government departments to sweep away laws that prevent sharing of people's data without their knowledge. The problem is that the government is pressing ahead with the vast project of merging all government databases (under the deliberately dull title of Transformational Government) without the slightest concern for individual privacy, or the mistakes contained in those databases. This week the data protection agency Garlik revealed that although millions of pieces of information were wrong, most departments had no policy or budget to correct them. This tells you something about the government's sense of entitlement over personal data. Once it has our information, a discreet transfer of ownership takes place and it feels no responsibility to the people to whom this data actually belongs. This is classic big state arrogance, and no doubt the dreadful Straw hopes to smuggle this bill through parliament in the usual way \u2013 with as little scrutiny as possible. Jenny Willott a Lib-Dem MP sums up the situation: '\"It is shocking enough that the government has no system to correct mistakes in personal information records, but to propose spreading this error-riddled data across the whole of government is dangerously absurd.\" It must be clear to everyone that merging government databases will mean cross-infection of poorly maintained and uncorrected records, but I doubt this will concern Labour MPs. When the times comes they will file into the voting lobbies oblivious of the issues concerning bad records and privacy, and happy to act as the instrument of a project that is run behind closed doors by the civil service. Regulation is all. In my only conversation with Gordon Brown about civil liberties, he maintained the line that we should trust government with our information. Safeguards and supervision of all systems would mean the public was protected, he said. It seems to me that the proposals in Straw's bill directly show the lie in the prime minister's argument because the justice minister makes no allowance for the mistakes that we know exist. There are no safeguards, which is neglect of a very grave order indeed. This all complies to the pattern of a government that has failed to regulate catastrophically greedy banks but in the last dozen years has shown a peculiar obsession with regulating and monitoring the life of the individual. If it had been the other way round, I would have few quarrels with this government. This question of competency has only been touched on in a few of the arguments posted in response to my request for a coherent statement in favour of the government's authoritarian laws. It is an essential issue and one that should be ignored by people hoping to win the \u00a3100. The response has been so big that I am going to take the weekend to read and digest the posts.",
  "title": "Merger of data is a threat to us all",
  "lead": "A proposal to let government departments share people's information ignores the mistakes that will be transferred too",
  "tags": [
    "technology/data-protection",
    "politics/jackstraw",
    "world/privacy",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/government-data"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/henryporter/2009/jan/23/data-protection-privacy-jack-straw",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}