{
  "content": "Few people leave their mark on the world. Assorted aristocrats, some great artists, perhaps one or two notable writers will make it into the history books. Maybe a son of a humble Judean carpenter if he's lucky. But the great mass of humanity has so far been, in death, anonymous. Our generation is different. I'm by no means a notable writer. The few books and records I've made will probably be landfill long before I trade my garret for sheltered accommodation. But my inconsequential witterings on Twitter and Facebook will survive me. Perhaps by decades. The needlessly flippant comments I've left under news articles could be the biggest mark I leave on civilisation. That's a bit worrying, when you think about it. But it could be worse. Who thinks about posterity when they're Snapchatting a picture of their bum to a bloke in Iowa? When a celebrity dies, these days, the first journalistic port of call is their last tweet. When Peaches Geldof died tragically earlier this month she happened to sign off with something poignant and memorable. Statistically, few of us are likely do the same. Most people's last words will probably be \"Bojo's such a berk\", or just a picture of a funny cat. I don't expect a mad scramble to print my last words, which is just as well. They'll probably be something predictable about how awful Britain's Got Talent is. Not exactly Salvador Allende standard. Not even Nancy Astor. There's big money to be made by some enterprising developer who invents a \"dead man's handle\" for Twitter. One that sends out something memorable if we leave our account unattended for more than, say, 24 hours. Five quid on PayPal buys you \"the Wittgenstein\". Popular choice. Very Christmassy. But until that's invented, what other preparations should we make for our digital legacy? My wife may be the chief financial officer and designated driver in our household, but I'm the official IT guy. I'm the one who knows all the passwords. And in the wake of the Heartbleed outbreak, they are all new, unique, and unguessably arcane. How will my heirs and assigns log in to my Amazon account? When the family web domain needs to be renewed, who will look after that? If my merry widow splashes the life insurance money on a new laptop, how will she connect it to the Wi-Fi? In a recent fit of morbidity, I actually prepared a spreadsheet of the cryptograms I've dreamed up to protect things like my miraculously-still-there MySpace profile and my login to io9.com's comment system. But should I do more? Twalue.com reckons my Twitter account is worth $12,000. I'd like to see their figures, but assuming for a moment they're right, that's more than all of my vintage comic books and \"useful\" computer cables put together. How might I bequeath that notionally valuable asset to my descendants? I wouldn't like to think about how much I've spent on iTunes downloads. And I've no more read the ever-changing Apple terms and conditions than you have. Is someone else allowed to have that Little Dragon album when I die? Will anyone actually want my Best Of Crosby, Stills, Nash &amp; Young? Historically, births, deaths and marriages were announced in our broadsheet of choice. But now, in the social media age, perhaps the right thing is to announce someone's demise on their Facebook page. And if we do, how should our scattered network of real and imaginary friends respond? Should they \"like\" that final update? And I haven't even talked about the big sexy elephant in the room. Almost everyone needs a trusted digital executor to come and clean up their web history. Just in case. Even the most innocuous searches can throw up something distressingly fruity. And that's a legacy none of us want our relatives to see.",
  "title": "Long after we're gone, our online witterings will endure | Michael Moran",
  "lead": "Michael Moran: Flippant comments under news articles could be the biggest mark I leave on civilisation. My digital legacy needs cleaning up",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/heartbleed",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/blogging",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/apr/18/long-after-gone-online-witterings-endure",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}