{
  "content": "There are as many groups on Facebook dedicated to Scrabulous - the Scrabble-playing application - as there are showing solidarity with Burma. Three million people are registered to play the game, and 700,000 do so every day. Since, Hasbro, the manufacturers of the official Scrabble have threatened to sue, wounded wordsmiths have even been joining groups with names such as Please, God, I Have So Little: Don't Take Scrabulous Too. The success of Scrabulous demonstrates how dedicated people are to not doing the stuff they're actually paid to do. Iain Morgan, the host of a group called Help, I'm a Scrabulous Addict, told the New York Times he attributed the game's success to \"all those people who are bored at work in their office.\" Of course Facebook has a lot to answer for. Email is bad enough for timewasting - and that doesn't have the bonus of pictures, updates and the ability to stalk people. It's amazing how quickly an hour passes when you're gazing at pictures thinking \"that haircut is a bad idea\" or \"how did she end up with him?\". But even without a tool that lets you browse other people's lives in an only slightly creepy way, there are many options available to the timewaster. To avoid writing this, for example, I downloaded some music, ate entirely superfluous meals, organised my bag, read a fascinating article on Waziristan and finally adjusted my chair. It's much more comfortable for Facebook browsing now. By the time I'd updated my Amazon wishlist, I was edging towards the extreme end of a study of 2,000 workers last year. The 2007 Wasting Time Survey found an average of 1.7 hours of an 8.5-hour work day was spent socialising, web browsing and arranging doctor's appointments (for example). Twenty-to-29-year-olds slacked off most, spending 2.1 hours procrastinating, while more studious over-40s made up for it with a figure of 1.4 hours. No statistics were available for how many people filled in the survey at work when they should have been doing something else. It's odd to see timewasting laid bare in numbers - 20% of a day spent dawdling. And if you're a manager who operates solely on statistics, you're probably having a nice, efficient heart attack and encouraging IT to ban the internet. But, however easily distracted your workers are, don't take away their fun (or indeed their Scrabulous): that 20% of the day that is wasted might actually be wasted for a good reason. Many of those questioned for the survey said they were wasting time because their work was boring and unchallenging. What better way to keep a discontent employee happy than by allowing them to indulge in a little R&amp;R? And just think how seldom you bond with a co-worker over work. It's always bitching, skiving off or forwarding an email that unites people. Facebook-friending a colleague is tantamount to a proposal of marriage. As happy, team-oriented employees achieve more, who's to say that timewasting is wasted time? In fact some workers are even continuing office-style bonding after hours in a game called PowerPoint karaoke. It involves taking a PowerPoint presentation you've never seen before, standing up in front of a crowd of people and freewheeling a presentation for comic effect. It was invented by a group of German artists who wanted to reverse PowerPoint's reputation for sucking the life from even the most fervent topic. \"In the hands of the wrong person any presentation software becomes a dangerous weapon, a means of torture,\" said one. It's taking off mostly at tech conferences, but some Americans are starting to play it at home. All you need now is a projector for your email, several of your colleagues and a Saturday night, and you can get all your procrastinating done over the weekend. Well maybe. office.hours@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Wasting time can be more productive than you think",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "money/money",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": "The success of Scrabulous shows how dedicated people are to not doing the stuff they're actually paid to do",
  "id": "money/2008/mar/10/facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}