{
  "content": "There's was no small amount of excitement in the Guardian's technology department on Thursday and Friday as our developers were freed from the shackles of doing all the dull stuff that keeps the site running (!) to spend two days building cool stuff for the Guardian's first hack day. This was all masterminded by Matt McAlister, the head of the Guardian's Developer network, and kicked of with talks and demonstrations by Publishing 2.0's Scott Karp, Guardian tech strategist Stephen Dunn, who explained what kind of RSS fed the site offers, and journalist Simon Rogers, who served up an overwhelming pile of data including defence budgets and how much illegal drugs cost across the UK. After introducing everyone and showing them whereto find interesting things to build with, the developers have just over 24 hours to knock together something interesting... Photograph: Paul Carvill/Flickr/Some rights reserved The 37 hacks included: \u2022 Martin Belam from Currybet tweaked a previous browser toolbar hack to add the new Guardian.co.uk branding and RSX feeds. \u2022 Matthew Somerville of MySociety put together a comment-hacking script that meant users could block comments from certain commenters. One click, and all the comments form that person would disappear site wide. He also found time to build a totally separate Charlie Brooker tribute site, replacing all the Guardian's branding with 'Charlian.co.uk' and nobbling the site so it only shows content related to Charlie Brooker... \u2022 Arthur Wyn created an improved crossword app that let you tab between clues and flick between the quick or cryptic versions, and with functionality for visually impaired users. \u2022 Techbelly implored us all the \"think of the numbers\". Our journalism is full of numbers - \u00a318m, \u00a3700m, $300bn - but what do they mean? And big is a billion pounds? His brilliant hack was a discreet floating menu that hovered to the right of figures in a story and offers different values of worth - teachers, Ronaldos, Jonathan Rosses... Click one, and after the figure in the story parentheses will show what that figure represents; \u00a36m is two years of Ronaldo's salary, or 587 new teachers. Quite brilliant. \u2022 Car hack - name lost in action - added extra details to car ads by pulling licencing details from the DVLA site. \u2022 Nik Silver converted some of Simon Rogers' fascinating government data into flexible file formats like CSV and JSON which could be fed into Google Visualisations. \u2022 Rob McKinnon of the New Zealand TheyWorkForYou knocked up a comment hack that tracked phrases in Guardian articles. So \"Chinese democracy is\" returned nine results including \"leaking like the Titanic\" and \"finally finished which means Guns N'Roses should next year have a product to tour\". \u2022 Roberto hacked the obligatory Lego Mindstorm robot and taped a bluetooth controller to its head. We liked that. \u2022 Chris said he thought SMS is underused and devised a text voting system that everyone used to vote for the winning hack. The same principle could be used so that fans at Glastonbury could vote for their favourite act on the Guardian Music site, he said. The winner, eventually, was a neat keyword tool that let you drag key terms from the page to blend with another. So you could drag 'money' into the 'Middle East' tab to get stories about money in the Middle East. At the busiest point, there were around 75 developers and editorial staff working on these projects (and many more I couldn't detail) and the atmosphere was really exciting. Quite a few editorial staff had a insight that day into just how powerful and significant this technology is for their journalism. The Guardian editor and deputy editor were there, and the consensus was that this work was an extremely high calibre. Many, many more of these to come. There's a video coming this afternoon, and, in the mean time, a Flickr photo pool.",
  "title": "Celebrating the first of many Guardian Hack Days",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/research",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "There's was no small amount of excitement in the Guardian's technology department on Thursday and Friday as our developers were freed from the shackles of doing all the dull stuff that keeps the site running to spend two days building cool stuff for the Guardian's first hack day",
  "id": "media/pda/2008/nov/17/hacking-research",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}