{
  "content": "The internet is the ultimate tool to influence decisions. The good news is that making a website isn't as difficult or costly as many people might imagine. In the digital age, a website is integral to the visibility of your business. Essentially, it's an online shop window into your startup, and, like any display, if it isn't appealing, your customer is lost. A good website lends credibility to your business. Not having one gives a bad impression to prospective clients. Therefore, having a website is necessary and it is an investment you make into the success of your business. Many Start Up Loan recipients have used it to help fund their website, highlighting the importance of an online presence. However, you don't always need to spend a huge amount. So what are the options for making a great website? If you are on a limited budget, it's important to consider DIY website design. Of course, hiring a professional developer is also an option, but you should aim to spend as little as possible without compromising on quality. Remember, however, that costs are not just the payment of a developer, but also your own time. If you choose to create your own website, you will invariably take time out of your schedule, which is expensive. Create.net, a Start Up Loan corporate partner, offer all recipients support for building and managing their own business website \u2013 and online shop, too \u2013 regardless of technical ability and budget. All these conversations should be prefaced with the understanding that the overarching concern is to drive traffic to your site. After all, what's a brilliant business if no one knows about it? If you do decide to go down the route of creating your own website, there are many tools to help, including the ever-popular WordPress, Blogger, and Tumblr. Keep it simple and remember that user experience should always be the overriding concern when making any decisions. Moreover, this can be a great way to be comfortable with your website and branding, as well as a crash-course learning experience in basic development. If you decide to get a developer like Start Up Loan recipient Jennifer Onah did, you must be prepared to spend. Jennifer used a web design company to help build the website for her fashion label Ferona, which specialises in bespoke high-end dresses for women, to give all her users a slick first impression of her designs. For Jennifer, this was an investment worth the price tag. Remember that, after they have created your website, it's useful to teach yourself how to edit. This will save you incurring future costs, but be aware that complicated changes to your site will require development and a specialist skill, which has a cost attached. Setting objectives is key to making your website purposeful. This could be raising awareness of your business, or creating sales, and will feed into what you want to include on your site in terms of content, particularly the homepage, as well as technical requirements. If you have a product you're selling, e-commerce functionality will need to be built into your website. You will need to look into having a shopping cart and a secure method of payment. You must not forget to check if your internet server provider is able to host your site, as well as registering your domain name. Testing your site is imperative. Make sure your site is compatible on various browsers and ask your friends and family to test it in terms of aesthetics and experience. Once you are happy to go live, you need to start promoting it. Don't assume your site will create traffic and interest just because you have spent time and money on it. SEO is important so the inclusion of key words, meta tags and page descriptions is vital. You can use pay-per-click advertising on Google, but as a startup this decision should be made carefully because it has a cost attached. Once people get to your website, you need to engage them, so update it regularly to keep it fresh and relevant. Social media is also a good tool for driving traffic \u2013 remember your website is just one part of your online presence. Websites can be as simple as you want them to be, or as complex as required. It is a key representation of your business, so make sure you create something you can be proud of. James Caan is chairman of the Start-Up Loans Company. Each fortnight he will be tackling a different business issue. Keep up to date by visiting the network and signing up to our weekly newsletter. We welcome your suggestions for future topics and questions regarding your own business \u2013 please share them in the comments thread below. Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.",
  "title": "How to create a winning website on a budget",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "small-business-network/small-business-network",
    "small-business-network/winning-new-business",
    "business/business",
    "business/small-business",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "A good website lends credibility to a small business. But, as serial entrepreneur James Caan explains, giving your company an online presence needn't be expensive",
  "id": "small-business-network/2013/sep/11/create-winning-website-budget-business",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}