{
  "content": "Look at the strange result of the publication of those intimate photos of a British prince and his wife - an Irish politician calls for a privacy law and French police raid a magazine, effectively closing its offices. Am I alone in noting the oddity, even irony, of such disproportionate actions given that Ireland and France are republics dancing attendance upon Britain's monarchy? The knee-jerk call by Ireland's justice minister, Alan Shatter, to revisit privacy legislation, followed the Irish Daily Star's decision to reproduce the pages of Closer magazine containing the intimate pictures of William and Kate. It was a bizarre reaction, ignoring the fact that Ireland's system of press self-regulation has been regarded - not least in Britain - as a successful model. It is thought to be working so well that advice from its press ombudsman, John Horgan, was sought by the Leveson inquiry. Shatter's call is almost certainly going to fail. But I was amazed that he should feel so passionately about the intrusion into the private life of British royals. My hunch, based on spending several months a year in Ireland over the past 23 years, is that a fair proportion of the Irish people adore the inhabitants of Buckingham Palace. Then again, a good many would not be happy to create legislation based on the travails of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge. Then there is France, where police raided the Paris offices of Closer magazine yesterday in their hunt to discover the identity of the photographer who snapped the pictures. So, in a republic proudly proclaiming the republican slogan of libert\u00e9, \u00e9galit\u00e9 and fraternit\u00e9, its police - following up on a what is known as a \"judicial request\" - acted on behalf of the British throne. As the royalist Daily Mail noted in its story on the affair, in an interview with a French lawyer, the raid appears to have been authorised specifically because of the royal family's involvement. It quotes Christophe Bigot, a barrister who specialises in media law, who questioned the legality of the Paris raid because journalistic sources, which includes photographers, are strictly protected by French law. Bigot said: \"A law of January 2, 2010, protects the confidentiality of sources, as do numerous decisions of the European court of human rights. In the case of William and Kate, I do not see how a prosecutor could justify a search of Closer.\" It shows, once again, that Britain's monarchy exercises almost mystical powers. It remains, even in republics, an institution of fascination, sometimes bordering on adulation. Why should that be? For republicans like me, it is galling. We can never seem to overcome its symbolic significance, which imbues its family with a glamour, a magic even, that stubbornly maintains its popularity at both home and abroad.",
  "title": "Why do republics dance to the British monarchy's tune?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "uk/prince-william",
    "world/ireland",
    "world/france",
    "uk/duchess-of-cambridge",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/magazines",
    "media/dailystar",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/medialaw",
    "media/leveson-inquiry"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade is amazed at the way in which Ireland and France has reacted to the William and Kate photos",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2012/sep/20/prince-william-ireland",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}