{
  "content": "Facebook has told the home secretary, Alan Johnson, it has \"no objection in principle\" to installing an anti-paedophile panic button he is pushing for, but continued to refuse to commit to installing the feature on its main site, despite this week's outcry over the murder of a British teenager by a convicted sex attacker she met on the site. After a meeting today the website \u2013 which agreed to a further meeting at its headquarters in Washington next month with the panic button's creators, the UK's Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre (Ceop) \u2013 said it had revealed to the home secretary details of its \"more robust reporting system\". It said its alternative to the Ceop button had been developed \"by analysing millions of reports submitted by users over the years\" and reiterated its position that it would consider giving users links to Ceop away from the main Facebook site in its \"safety centre\" area \u2013 but only after they had used the existing Facebook reporting system. The talks between Johnson and the UK's most-visited social networking site were in response to the backlash against the site in the wake of the murder of Ashleigh Hall. The 17-year-old was killed by serial rapist Peter Chapman, 33, who posed as a teenage boy on the site and lured her to her death. After he was convicted of murder, Ashleigh's mother criticised the site for not doing enough to protect youngsters from paedophiles. Johnson said today that he was pleased with the outcome of the talks. \"We had a frank exchange of views in which I emphasised that including the Ceop abuse reporting button on their site has the potential to transform child protection \u2013 and that the company should put this above all other considerations. \"Facebook told us they have no objection to the principle of including the Ceop button on their site and that they have now agreed to a high level meeting with Ceop in Washington on 12 April to discuss this issue further. \"[Minister] Alan Campbell and I reiterated our view that Facebook must find a way to use this button. I am pleased that the meeting with Ceop is taking place and await the outcome with interest.\" But it appeared that Facebook had not significantly changed its position. In a statement the site said it \"would explore\" adding the Ceop button to its safety centre and would discuss proposals with Ceop at the meeting. Later Richard Allan, director of policy for Facebook Europe said in principle the Ceop button might be effective but only \"for other sites\" and not Facebook. He said it was possible users who reported a concern via the Facebook system would then get a text box that would have links to the Ceop site. Including the button in the main reporting field could discourage concerned users from coming forward, he said. \"Our experience of trying to put icons on the normal reporting flow is that it can reduce the number of reports. Our experience is fewer reports, not more,\" he said. Last week senior police officers criticised Facebook for repeatedly refusing to sign up to a panic button, with the chief executive of Ceop, Jim Gamble, saying police had been asking the company to do so \"for too long\". Last year 267 reports were received about suspicious activity on Facebook, 43% of which related to cases of suspected grooming. In 81% of cases the individuals targeted had to make their reports to Ceop through other websites because Facebook does not have the direct link. Children use the button to make reports to Ceop's specialist police teams about suspected abuse, grooming and severe bullying. Although Bebo and MSN have adopted the button, Facebook has refused. On 11 March Facebook threatened to sue the Daily Mail over the newspaper's allegations that 14-year-old girls who create a profile on the social networking site could be approached \"within seconds\" by older men who \"wanted to perform a sex act\" in front of them.",
  "title": "Facebook still refuses to commit to panic button, minister hears",
  "lead": "Website has no objection to Ceop button 'in principle' but meeting online child protection team next month",
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "society/childprotection",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2010/mar/18/facebook-johnson-ceop-panic-button",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}