{
  "content": "When trying to teach a class of 13-year-olds at my old school about green living, not only did I realise that they are fully aware of the need to reduce environmental impacts but also that they are bursting with creative ideas on how to do it. As you read this, they are writing to Lord [Sebastian] Coe, chair of the 2012 London Olympics organising committee, about how he could power the Olympic stadium by harnessing the energy of the vibrations caused by the crowd. The inhibition-free perspective of young people is refreshing and should remind us of what our priorities should be. So how can we make their views heard? The answer is the internet. The second generation internet has fast become the most powerful tool the environment movement has. Social networking sites, viral emails and user-generated materials offer a new range of weaponry for campaigning groups. Around 96% of Americans between 11 and 18 are members of an online social network. So when you consider that protecting the environment is a passion of many young people, the potential power of influence of Web 2.0 for the green movement is phenomenal. The pupils I met knew that, of all the issues of the 21st century, reducing our environmental footprint is the greatest challenge we face. Forum for the Future found that 78% of university applicants in 2007 believed that \"lifestyles need to change across the board, or in many areas, for human civilisation to survive the next 100 years\". It is, therefore, imperative that our young citizens are given a fair hearing on the decisions that current leaders are making - and online social networking can help achieve this. The opportunities it offers play to the skills of young people. Web 2.0 emphasises online collaboration and sharing among users. By sharing knowledge and ideas, and by communicating them broadly, young people can enhance their own capacity to find solutions and make changes. The new social networking site Footprintfriends.com is an attempt to do just that. It was set up exclusively to join together young people who share a passion for protecting our natural environment. As a moderated site, it aims to be an enabler for young people aged 11 to 18 to act on their environmental concerns. Founder Karen Ford hopes \"members will ask questions, change attitudes, and have a say in the future facing them\". Footprintfriends, which has its own charitable foundation to which network members can apply for funding to implement their own projects, has already attracted hundreds of young people since launching last August. It is set to expand rapidly after establishing a new partnership with the British Standards Institute, which is using the site to promote a Sustainable Students competition, involving about 20,000 schools. We face tough choices in the battle to protect our environment. More than ever before, our young citizens have a way of collaborating to make their views heard. And, more than ever before, we have a responsibility to listen. \u00b7 Will Ashley-Cantello is a scholar with the sustainable development charity Forum for the Future.",
  "title": "Young people have the tools for environmental change at their fingertips",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "environment/ethical-living",
    "environment/climate-change",
    "environment/environment",
    "technology/web20",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "education/education"
  ],
  "lead": "Web 2.0 has fast become the most powerful tool the environment movement has says Will Ashley-Cantello",
  "id": "environment/2008/may/14/ethicalliving.climatechange",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}