{
  "content": "While newspapers and the music industry look for new ways to make as much money as they did before the dawn of digital, games makers are celebrating achieving success with the \"freemium\" business model. This model means that anyone can play for free, but they have to pay for access to higher levels or enhanced features in the game. The online game Club Penguin, owned by Disney, is probably the best known freemium games success story. Club Penguin, created by a Canadian company, saw phenomenal growth after its launch in October 2005, going from 15,000 users then to 1.4 million by the following March. The runaway success did not go unnoticed, and Disney scooped it up in August 2007. At the time of the purchase, Club Penguin had 12 million users, of which 700,000 were paid subscribers. Based on the subscriber numbers and a roughly $5 monthly subscription at the time, it was estimated that the site was generating $42m in annual revenue. A subscription, which has several tiers, gives players access to members-only rooms. Fans can also buy in-game accessories, and Disney, being the merchandising machine that it is, also sells Club Penguin toys, playsets and books. It is a model that online gaming enthusiasts say could challenge the traditional heavyweights of the gaming industry. The freemium models build on a long-standing practice in the industry of releasing limited demos, a try-before-you-buy opportunity. Players can play a limited version of the game or play it a few times before having to pay for the full game. Hardcore gaming has led to a blockbuster culture, similar to Hollywood films, with high production costs. \"The time is quickly approaching when development costs escalate beyond viability,\" says the tech blogger Jared Newman. Development costs for the current generation of high-end consoles, Microsoft's Xbox 360 and Sony's PlayStation 3, range from $20m to $30m, and those for next generation consoles could average $60m, according to Ubisoft's chairman and chief executive, Yves Guillemot. Games often take two years or more to develop. Although some analysts believed that games were recession-proof, sales have fallen over the past six months. However, as sales of boxed video games have declined, online games, such as World of Warcraft and the myriad games in Facebook and other social networks, are booming. Kristian Segerstr\u00e5le, the chief executive of the social gaming company Playfish, says it is moving from a boxed product to a service. According to the trends tracking company NPD, sales of boxed games are down 20% this year while online gaming is up 20%. Playfish produces Flash-based games for social networks including Facebook, MySpace and Bebo, and mobile games for the iPhone and iPod Touch. The market for Facebook alone is huge. The social network announced last week that it has 300 million users, and is \"cash-flow positive\" ahead of schedule. The challenge for companies such as Playfish is to stand out amongst the 350,000 active applications on Facebook. To do that, Playfish has a development strategy that differs from those of most console or PC-based games. In these games, what is happening on the screen is key, but Segerstr\u00e5le says that his company tries to focus on what is happening between the gamer and his or her friends. Playfish's first game was Who Has the Biggest Brain, which pitted friends against each other to see who was the cleverest. Many of its titles, such as Pet Society or Country Story, are more about co-operation and self-expression. \"If you help each other, you level up faster,\" he says. \"It is about reaffirming friendships.\" Playfish has a very lightweight business. (\"We don't own a single server. We are all cloud-based.\") Cloud-based computing \u2013 which is allowing many start-ups to keep their costs low but still meet demand as they grow \u2013 means that Playfish pays another company only for the computing power and storage it uses. The games are free to play but offer things that players might want to buy. The company also sells ads inside the games. Playfish has been successful in persuading a small percentage of players to buy things inside the games. On average, a paying player spends $10 to $40 a month. In Pet Society, it sold 4m virtual flowers last Valentine's day. However, Douglas McCabe, of the media consultancy Enders Analysis, is doubtful that this model can be applied to other media sectors: \"Gaming is a different kind of territory.\" The other challenge for traditional media companies in adopting this model is their large fixed costs for production and distribution of physical copies, whether of books, magazines or newspapers, he says. \"It makes it very difficult for those companies to move as quickly as an online company.\"",
  "title": "'Freemium' reaps a premium for online games developers",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "technology/games",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Games developers turn to free online play with paid extras and subscription upgrades to woo social network users. By Kevin Anderson ",
  "id": "media/2009/sep/21/freemium-online-gaming",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}