{
  "content": "Sir Christopher Meyer has set out an eight-step plan to improve the press complaints commission, admitting self-regulation of newspapers had \"jagged edges and imperfections\". His plans to improve the PCC, after a year in which it has been criticised for its alleged \"cosiness\" with politicians and the royal family, include having open meetings with the public, an annual \"health check\" for its editorial code of practice and a \"user's handbook\" for journalists. However, Sir Christopher, who has just taken over as the chairman of the commission, ruled out the introduction of an external ombudsman, proposing instead that an internal figure be appointed to review the decisions of the PCC. The former British ambassador to Washington also suggested appointing an extra lay member to the PCC, adding that the commission should advertise openly around the country for all future positions. Sir Christopher's other proposals, made in his maiden speech to the Newspaper Society's annual general meeting, include ensuring that newspapers publish PCC adjudications more clearly, that more newspapers, magazines and websites should carry PCC contact details and the introduction of an annual customer service audit. \"Self-regulation of the press... has its jagged edges and imperfections, and it always will. But the alternatives - state regulation or privacy laws that will necessarily favour the affluent - are offensive in principle and would be defective in practice,\" said Sir Christopher. \"Liberty and self-regulation are inextricably linked. Any infringement of self-regulation would not just erode the freedoms of the press... it would curtail the freedom of the citizen, who in a democratic society will always depend on media uninhibited both by control of the state and deference to the establishment to protect their liberty\". \"That is why self regulation - and all the jagged edges that come with it - must be protected, must be nurtured and must grow,\" he added. However, Sir Christopher denied that he was \"the spokesman for the British newspaper industry\", but added that \"the British press - regional, national, weekly, magazine - provides a better service to its readers than any other newspaper industry in the world\". \"Our natural condition is turbulence and restlessness; our habitat a moving landscape, not still life; and our response, not permanent revolution, but permanent evolution.\" His comments will pre-empt what is expected to be an excoriating attack on the media by the parliamentary select committee, chaired by Gerald Kaufman, which has been investigating the PCC's ability to protect the privacy of readers who unwittingly find themselves at the centre of a newspaper story. The director of the PCC, Guy Black, and his colleagues were given a severe grilling over whether the commission did its job adequately or whether it needed to be more proactive, more open, and whether it should answer to an independent ombudsman or the new media watchdog, Ofcom. Sir Christopher said he had joined the PCC during \"interesting times\", thanks to the debate between freedom of expression and right to privacy, pressure to submit the PCC to the authority of Ofcom, and \"slings and arrows from some on the select committee on culture, media and sport\". \"Guy Black will be the first - and, I hope, last - recipient of the PCC's specially struck medal of valour for coolness under fire,\" he said, in reference to Mr Black's evidence to the committee. As well as highlighting how the PCC could be improved, Sir Christopher outlined four \"heresies\" - changes to the commission that have been suggested before the select committee inquiry and elsewhere - that he refuses to countenance. He rejected the proposal made by Simon Kelner, the editor of the Independent, that there should be any sort of ombudsman overseeing the PCC, or that the commission should come under the power of Ofcom. \"That would be government control by any other name, and is utterly repugnant,\" he said. He also ruled out giving the PCC the power to levy fines or award compensation, allowing the PCC to initiate complaints, and \"the notion that in some way the PCC should act as a general control on the press\".",
  "title": "Meyer outlines PCC reforms",
  "lead": "1.30pm: Sir Christopher Meyer has set out an eight-step plan to help iron out the press complaints commission's 'jagged edges and imperfections'. By Ciar Byrne",
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/pcc",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/may/06/privacy.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}