{
  "content": "When you communicate your NGO's work, are you building on the ignorance and romanticism of poor countries or challenging it? This was one of the key thoughts that came out of The Development Element report released last month by Georgetown University and how-matters.org. With supporters growing tired of poverty porn, the sensationalism of poverty, there is a clear need to re-evaluate how development organisations effectively deliver information about their work to the public. Kony 2012 was hugely popular because of its black and white, us vs them perspective. But while effective at pulling in supporters, most development organisations would struggle how to portray any one of their issues in such simple terms. Challenge-style campaigns like the no make-up selfie and ice bucket have also taken off, but similar campaigns with a clear ask haven't. \"[Kony] was not the reality of how social, political, and institutional change works anywhere,\" says Jennifer Lentfer, one of the report's authors. \"Global issues like poverty and hunger are incredibly complicated and representing these issues' inter-related contributing factors is even more difficult within the public's short attention span. \"When organisations are still under pressure to bring in the fundraising dollars, how are we enabling people in wealthy countries to relate and connect to issues in the global south without eliciting pity, guilt or shame?\" The increasing number of mediums you can deliver your message has also made the job of the communicator more difficult. More violent imagery on 24-hour news channels and adverts openly trying to pull on viewers' heartstrings has also left the public desensitised. So how can communications professionals paint a fuller picture of the realities of people's lives? Is there a difference between development and humanitarians comms and what can they learn from each other? And finally, as has already been debated on this site, does complexity help tell the global development story? Join our expert panel on Thursday 9 October from 1-3pm BST to discuss how to innovate communications. The live chat is not video or audio-enabled but will take place in the comments section (below). Get in touch via globaldevpros@theguardian.com or @GuardianGDP on Twitter to recommend someone for our expert panel. Follow the discussion using the hashtag #globaldevlive. Panel Onyekachi Wambu, director, Afford, London, UK He runs a charity that expands the diaspora contributions to Africa. He previously was a BBC journalist and edited The Voice newspaper. Tobias Denskus, lecturer communication for development, University of Malm\u00f6, Malm\u00f6, Sweden, @aidnography @mahcomdev Tobias, a senior lecturer, is a development anthropologist and new media researcher teaching online communication for development. Maria Schleimann, communication officer, International Dalit Solidarity Network, Copenhagen, Denmark, @idsnupdates Working to end caste-based discrimination, Maria's is focused on bridging the gaps between the grassroots and the mainstream media. Gautam Raju, technology and innovation lead at Oxfam International, New Delhi, India, @gautamraju @Oxfam Gautam is working on launching OurSay, a democratic media website as well as on developing a digital communications strategy for Oxfam India. Victoria Okoye, senior communications specialist, Abt Associates, Accra, Ghana, @victoria_okoye Victoria's experience includes working on a range of development issues for USAid west Africa's trade hub and the African Partners Network. Daniel Balaban, representative and country director, WFP Centre of Excellence against Hunger, Bras\u00edlia, Brazil, @danibalaban Daniel is an economist and former president of FNDE/Ministry of Education in Brazil. Nimco Ali, social media and network coordinator for End FGM/C Options, London, UK, @nimkoali Nimco, a women's rights activist, is also co-founder and director of Daughters of Eve a non-profit that works to protect girls at risk of FGM. Jennifer Peterson, director of communications, GRM Futures Group, Washington, DC, USA, @GRMINT @FuturesGroupGbl Jennifer leads communications for the GRM Futures Group of international development companies. Kofi Yeboah, communications manager, Clean Team Ghana, Kumasi, Ghana, @kofiemeritus @cleanteamghana Kofi is an experienced blogger and leads communication for Clean Team Ghana. Sina Odugbemi, senior communications officer (policy), The World Bank Group,Washington DC, USA, @WorldBank Sina has many years' experience looking at the role of media and communication in development, particularly on improving governance. Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter and join our LinkedIn group.",
  "title": "Live Q&A: what is the future of global development communications?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "global-development-professionals-network/global-development-professionals-network",
    "global-development-professionals-network/live-chats",
    "global-development-professionals-network/communications",
    "global-development/global-development",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/social-media",
    "society/charities"
  ],
  "lead": "Moving away from sensationalism, how can NGOs effectively promote their causes? Join us 9 October, 1-3pm BST to debate",
  "id": "global-development-professionals-network/2014/oct/03/live-qa-what-is-the-future-of-global-development-communications",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}