{
  "content": "Social media marketers vilify the practice of buying 'fake' social media followers from dubious 'click farms' as not just poor practice but pointless. They argue that only authentic followers with a genuine interest in the brand can potentially be moved to a point of purchase. But, does a large follower base \u2013 however garnered \u2013 attract exponential growth in authentic followers? That popularity begets further popularity has long been understood by anthropologists; for generations we have observed how humans follow expert or high-status individuals in small groups and how those in larger groups use popularity in the same way. This works to explain how all kinds of things rise and fall in popularity, from clothing fashion to technologies and even words; we'll come on to \"peak beard\" shortly. The tipping point of popularity However, we do not need to invoke any deep psychological reason to explain this phenomenon: it's simply that the more copies of a thing there are (be that a hyperlink, a photo, a gesture or a buzzword), the more likely others may come into contact with it and so have the opportunity to follow or copy it. How people respond to that hyperlink, photo or buzzword depends on whether they are innovators, making an independent choice about the stimulus, or simply copying the behaviour of others. Known as the Bass Diffusion model, it describes how the popularity of something grows in proportion to current popularity among those people who have yet to adopt (or copy) it. As the thing becomes more popular, there are fewer potential new adopters and the trend fades again. What this means for popular social media profiles \u2013 like Shakira's Facebook page which has 87.7m 'likes' and Katy Perry's Twitter profile with its 56 million followers \u2013 is that their social media popularity will eventually ebb as the number of new adopters dwindles and they are usurped by other profiles whose popularity is on the rise (trending). (You can easily find your own Bass curves for buzzwords through Google's Ngram Viewer, which draws on a database of millions of books, in multiple languages, to show the annual popularity of any published word or phrase over the last several centuries.) Perceived popularity (as opposed to actual popularity) can sometimes work as stepping-stone, a short-cut for members of larger or unfamiliar groups, to knowing whether someone is good enough to follow. In fact, it can provide some acceleration to the future popularity of something or someone. Ranking social media influence There are attempts to assign an independent level of social media 'influence', or popularity, to social media accounts. Klout, for example, uses an algorithm to combine elements such as how many followers you have, how many times your content is shared on social media, how many views it received, etc. However, whether this identifies 'true' influence is debateable, simply because our brains are not evolved to handle such a plethora of 'experts'. Evolutionary anthropologist Robin Dunbar has demonstrated that humans have social brains capable of handling about 150 friends and family \u2013 and no more. He claims this is the number of people you can have a relationship with that involves trust and obligation. Also, when everyone is competing to prove they are highly popular, we get a 'Red Queen' effect that levels the playing field, where everyone has to claim to be highly popular just to keep up with everyone else making the same claim. What this means for social media marketers So, the simplistic answer is yes, if you want to increase the number of followers on your social media channels, then ensuring there is already a high number of followers to the account (irrespective of whether they are authentic or fake) is a good start. Duncan Watts, principal researcher at Microsoft Research and a founding member of the MSR-NYC lab has been espousing this kind of strategy since pre-Facebook days. Of course, there are real questions to be asked about how you can turn the numbers of passive followers into some more active asset, an army of fans who advocate and recruit others to your cause, and this is where sheer volume is insufficient. There is also a careful balancing act required, as it is possible to become too popular, which, ironically, triggers the start of a popularity decline. Geel Le Mens from Stanford Graduate School of Business and Jonah Berger of the Wharton Business School have shown how the perception of extreme popularity actually repels buyers/followers; few people are keen to jump on the trailing end of a trend wave. Many brands now work to prevent their products or services appearing to be too popular. As we all know, all things 'authentic' from beards to 'counterculture' have mass appeal because they are perceived, ironically, to be rare or original. Until, however, their overwhelming popularity unpicks that. Even beards \u2013 widely seen as a signal of male authenticity \u2013 are on their way out, precisely because beards are now perceived as popular, and therefore no longer edgy or sexy. We are to use another buzzword, post peak-beard. For the social media marketer, it is true that social following can be a numbers game, but equally, there can be too much of a good thing; decline always follows a peak. Professor Alex Bentley is head of anthropology and archaeology at Bristol University. Visit his blog here. To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled Advertisement feature. Find out more here.",
  "title": "The controversial case for buying 'fake' social media followers",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Could social herd behaviour \u2013 the act of following something because it appears popular \u2013 lend this reviled practice credence? ",
  "id": "media/2014/sep/02/the-controversial-case-for-buying-fake-social-media-followers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}