{
  "content": "Leo Hickman and the Guardian deserve to be congratulated for drawing attention to the emergence of a whole raft of internet-based personal location services (How I became a Foursquare cyberstalker, G2, 23 July). As Hickman showed, this new breed of online applications has the potential to be truly spooky. Anyone collecting or broadcasting data about someone else's physical whereabouts should be obliged to observe the very highest standards of data security, yet Hickman's piece reveals some extremely slipshod work. However, the otherwise excellent story overlooked one angle. Because every location service I know of, including Foursquare, is paid for by advertising it means the apps are free to the end user, available for download by anyone who can click a mouse. That includes children. Ofcom's research has shown that around one in five children between the ages of eight and 12 are already getting away with lying about their age to create profiles on Facebook, MySpace or Bebo. Can we look forward to one in five children blithely linking location services to their social networking profiles, adding yet another and qualitatively new layer of risk? I suspect other stalkers who will surely follow in Hickman's steps will not have the same benign intent. Just because a thing becomes technically possible it does not mean every online business should stampede towards it, and indeed some are not doing so. More credit to them. There is or ought to be an ethical dimension to business. Google and Yahoo should give a lead and immediately drop their personal location products (Latitude and FireEagle) and promise not to reintroduce them until they have a way of keeping kids off the premises. John Carr Secretary, Children's Charities' Coalition on Internet Safety",
  "title": "Letters: Real risk for children in location services",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/foursquare",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/bebo",
    "technology/location-based-services",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media",
    "society/childprotection",
    "society/society",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/yahoo"
  ],
  "lead": " Hickman showed that this new breed of online applications has the potential to be truly spooky",
  "id": "technology/2010/jul/27/children-web-cyberstalking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}