{
  "content": "Three men huddle in a mythical balloon as it drifts closer to disaster. One is Richard Desmond, proprietor of the Express and Star, the kind of natural comedian Max Miller might have loved. Another is Joseph Pulitzer, most prized of global news-paper barons. And the third, generically at least, is whoever happens to be chairman of the BBC Trust at the time. So: who is heaved overboard first? It's not much of a contest really. Although Joe Pulitzer would have gagged over the quality of Desmond's Leveson inquiry jokes \u2013 as in \"the Daily Malicious, sorry Daily Mail\" \u2013 he'd have instinctively taken the rough rather than the smooth. \"The attempt of a few narrow purists to charge the daily press with\u2026 responsibility for the lamentable condition of things is a futile one. The daily press publishes vice, no doubt, but it does not idealise or palliate. It publishes also the inevitable consequences of it.\" Overboard, therefore, clutching his dossier of ethical guidance for producers, goes the man from the BBC. Henceforth Joe can concentrate on instructing Dickie further in the grey arts of spin, racial prejudice, political power-seeking and much, much more. For Pulitzer, even before Alfred Harmsworth invented the Daily Mail and Daily Mirror, was an instinctive, unquenchable yellow journalist and a foe of \"narrow purists\" everywhere. And it's this battle, all over again, that is being fought, not just in Lord Leveson's courtroom but across the newsagents' counters of Britain. Phone-hacking, bribing cops and paying robbers, hounding innocent celebrities? The charge sheet is long and daunting. The remedies, in terms of regulatory retribution, now include swingeing fines and months of enforced inactivity in some notional sin bin (ideas variously endorsed by editors like Paul Dacre of the Mail and Tony Gallagher of the Telegraph). No more laughing redtop cavaliers walk along Fleet Street now: and the Street itself is already the palest, most deserted shadow of its former self. Take a few grim figures. In January 1972 the Daily Mirror sold 4.2 million copies a day. Last month, on the latest audit, it sold 1.09m. The Express sold 3.29m: last month 596,000. Maybe the Sun \u2013 on 2.53m \u2013 is uncannily close to its 1972 total, but then it was young, soaring towards 3.6m and more, and now it's old, drooping back. The People and Sunday Mirror, between them, had well over 9m customers: today, a mere 2.5m or so. And where have the 6m punters who paid for their News of the World every Sunday gone? It's not fair to see just tabloid misery in such comparisons. The Telegraph has lost more than half the sale it had 40 years ago. The Guardian, Sunday Times, Observer and Sunday Telegraph are all well down. But there is absolutely no doubt that the redtops are sliding fastest \u2013 at an annual rate of 8.6% on the latest ABC statistics. Desmond blames the phone-hacking debacle, but that's only a part of the equation. Compare 1992 with 1972 for instance. The News of the World had already lost 1.3m customers, the Mirror and People's circulation had been sliced in half. The Daily Mirror (2.8m) was falling fast. The Daily Express had seen almost 2m followers fade away. And all this was before the internet, before iPads \u2013 before there were iPhones to hack. When tabloid laments grow too plaintive, remember this is a process that has stretched over decades. That isn't a conclusion likely to satisfy older, emotional travellers along the Street of Shame. On Friday, Richard Littlejohn in the Mail produced a notable lament for a great woman columnist, Sue Carroll of the Mirror, at whose funeral other greats of tabloid journalism gathered to pay homage. It was eloquent, emotional and, like his description of Carroll, \"feisty, funny, frank and passionate\". Although Littlejohn may or may not realise as much, it was also a piece penned in an essentially British tradition stretching back over centuries to \u2013 yes \u2013 the coffee houses of Fleet Street. \"It's a pity Lord Leveson couldn't have gone to [Sue's] funeral,\" he wrote. \"He might have learned something.\" And there's one strand of the tabloid tradition. It is not, in the sense some of Leveson's more histrionic witnesses imply, a cold and cynical trade. It has its heroes and its disciplines and some of the time it knows its mission \u2013 a belief that, in Pulitzer's words, \"a sensational paper can serve high social goals\". Before Harmsworth arrived on the scene a century ago there were small, often vibrant newspapers in Britain serving sections of the middle class, but there was nothing that spoke for the newly enfranchised or energised parts of a developing democracy: women, clerks, salesmen, millions upon millions who needed newspapers that knew their interests and gave them a voice. The Mail and the Mirror began that march. The Murdoch Sun carried it forward (with a lower reading age and a higher circulation). Don't write any of that off too blithely, either. The \"popular press\" may be less popular than it was, but it remains a formidable force and cash cow, able to translate the coins you push across counters into instant resource. A National Readership Survey at the end of last year showed the Mirror, Mail, Express, Star and Sun with 19.3m readers between them, while the Times, Guardian, Independent, FT and Telegraph could muster a bare 5m. More than that, the tabloids' spell reached far across the social spectrum. The Sun had more well-educated ABC1 readers than the Guardian, Times and Independent put together, the Mirror had more than the Telegraph, the Daily Star more than the FT. We're not talking rigid social classes here, more the changing nature of society itself. Is political correctness and the march of the Guardianistas part of that, as Littlejohn would say? Of course, but this in turn reflects the impact of decades of immigration and a multiculturalism which simply finds no resonance in a tabloid culture full of obscure puns and swaggering memories of World War Two \u2013 a patois that, in effect, tells newcomers to push off. If the tabloids speak for Britain, they speak increasingly for the Britain of 40 years ago, when they were in their pomp. And their slide from hegemony has gone side by side with a certain desperation about ways out and means (ie, phone hacking). When survival's at stake, then a never very pure brew of journalistic practices may be adulterated further. But it would probably be a mistake to build a full temple of doom around the News of the World and Lord Leveson's conclusions, if any. The real elephant in this room is the TV in the parlour. When newspaper readers turned to it for their national news bulletins, those 40 or more years ago, papers had to adjust their sights. The qualities added more analysis, more argument, more explanation; the tabs added the elements TV was still too prim to supply \u2013 news about television soap stars' nights of passion, speculation about who your favourite sofa interviewer was sleeping with, gossip about dirty doings in Buckingham Palace. It irritated many upmarket journalists, who liked to think of themselves as professionals rather than tradesmen. It brought a new breed of lawyers and \"image consultants\" into being. It produced some of the contempt and anger you feel around Leveson's courtroom. It spurred a fresh attempt at self-regulation \u2013 the Press Complaints Commission \u2013 but helped divide and defeat its best efforts. Yet still that elephant in the corner bustles on. Who wants to read about soap stars' sleeping arrangements when you can find them described somewhere on multi-channel TV? Who needs Page Three when adult channels can go all the way? Who looks for mindless entertainment when it's on an infinite screen near you? No: the true villain of the piece, the prime agent of tabloid travail, is probably a certain Rupert Murdoch, time lord of BSkyB. It's a moment of change or die, then: and if, too soon, there are 19m British souls left without their daily nourishment, will we or our democracy be better for it? Do we see the risks that go with too much righteousness? Can we, and the memory of Joe Pulitzer, survive the sadd est funeral of the lot as that balloon sinks fathoms deep?",
  "title": "Leveson inquiry: the risks of being too righteous about the British tabloids",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/richard-desmond",
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/dailyexpress",
    "media/daily-mirror",
    "media/thepeople",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/sun",
    "media/bbc",
    "culture/television",
    "media/abcs",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "The tabloid press is taking a pounding at the Leveson inquiry but these papers have helped to shape our democracy",
  "id": "media/2012/jan/14/leveson-inquiry-righteous-british-tabloids",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}