{
  "content": "Good week for Kailash Satyarthi and Malala Yousafzai, who have been awarded the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize. Estonia, which became the first ex-Soviet state to legalise gay marriage. Bad week for Central African Republic, after fresh clashes broke out in Bangui, the capital, amid growing tension between rival militias. Kenyan president Uhuru Kenyatta, who appeared at the International Criminal Court for inciting election violence. Quote of the week This week's quote comes from Mery Medina, a Colombian activist with women's rights network Mariposas, about how development would reduce violence in her home country. Peace will come if we have social investment. We lack jobs, good education, medical services. We do not have spaces where children can enjoy their childhoods \u2026 80% of the population live in absolute poverty. All this comes together to create violence.\" What you're saying Reflecting on the future of global development communications, UN Women intern @CatPhillips says campaigns need to avoid one-dimensional portrayals. This week in numbers 100 million Facebook users in India, despite 1.1 billion people without internet access. 25,000 Cubans arrived in the United States without visas this fiscal year, the highest number since 1994. 3,000 islands around Lake Victoria now have better access to healthcare via a hospital ship. 500 NHS workers in the UK have signed up to volunteer at hospitals in Sierra Leone. 30% of 1,426 reported maternal deaths in South Africa 2012 were linked to HIV. 30 people killed in clashes on the Indian-Pakistan border. 9 countries have reported suspected Ebola cases. Picture of the Week Milestones Uruguay is the first country in Latin America to assume resettlement costs for Syrian refugees, after accepting Syrian refugees for the first time on Thursday. Iranian president Hassan Rouhani called for greater academic freedom in Iran's universities on Tuesday. Reynaldo Bignone, who ruled Argentina from 1982 to 1983, was sentenced to 23 years for the kidnap and torture of more than 30 factory workers. Chile's supreme court halted the development of a gold and copper mine until indigenous communities are consulted. Infographic This map shows the varying food security levels across South Sudan - it's part of a larger interactive, multimedia piece South Sudan - a man made catastrophe by Messengers of Humanity. Reading list Aid transparency index (Publish What You Fund) A happy homecoming for India's widows (BBC) Uganda's Museveni walks back hard line on homosexuals; is the anti-gay currency collapsing in Africa? (Mail &amp; Guardian Africa) Who owns Kenya? (This is Africa) Coming next week: have your say Our live chat on Thursday 16 October 1-3pm BST will explore issues around family farmers for World Food Day. Email globaldevpros@theguardian.com to recommend someone for the panel. Stay tuned for articles looking at the power of poo in a Kibera slum, and the impact of biker gangs and ex-militants in keeping the peace in Liberia's Ebola crisis. Calling all southern voices! We want to hear about new papers published by institutions, thinktanks and NGOs in the global south. Send an email to globaldevpros@theguardian.com to be featured in our reading list. Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.",
  "title": "World in a week: Kailash Satyarthi and Malala Yousafzai win Nobel Peace Prize",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "global-development-professionals-network/global-development-professionals-network",
    "world/malala-yousafzai",
    "world/nobelpeaceprize",
    "world/estonia",
    "world/central-african-republic",
    "world/kenya",
    "world/colombia",
    "world/india",
    "technology/facebook",
    "world/cuba",
    "society/nhs",
    "world/pakistan",
    "world/ebola",
    "world/uruguay",
    "world/iran",
    "world/argentina",
    "world/chile",
    "world/south-sudan",
    "world/southafrica"
  ],
  "lead": "6 - 10 October: Catch up with all the development-related news you may have missed this week",
  "id": "global-development-professionals-network/2014/oct/10/world-in-a-week-kailash-satyarthi-and-malala-yousafzai-win-nobel-peace-prize",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}