{
  "content": "The actor Amanda Holden and her husband, the comedian Les Dennis, have struck a significant legal blow against tabloid press intrusion. It could also curb the practice of papers publishing pictures taken by paparazzi. In a settlement announced last night, Express Newspapers agreed to pay the couple what is thought to be a total of \u00a340,000 for infringing their privacy by publishing sneak photographs of them in the Daily Star. An apology appears in today's paper. The Express group's decision to pay the couple is sure to be seen as a landmark because they chose to sue under the section of the Human Rights Act which protects people's right to respect for their private and family life. They chose to go to law rather than use the self-regulatory system administered by the Press Complaints Commission. Holden and Dennis were shocked when pictures of them on holiday in a private villa in Tuscany appeared in the Star in June, on the day of the general election, on the front and centre pages. The paper promised \"more great pictures\" the next day. Lawyers acting for the couple immediately won an injunction which prevented the second set of pictures, taken by a freelance, Ken Goff, being published. Ironically, their case rested heavily on their contention that the Star had breached the editors' code of practice, which is policed by the PCC, which outlaws the use of long lens photography to take pictures of people in private places without their consent. Their solicitor, Peter Crawford, said: \"It is clear that the taking and the publication of these photographs was an intrusion into the privacy of Miss Holden and Mr Dennis\". He explained that the couple did not complain to the PCC because it did not have the power to stop the publication of the second day's pictures and, after the event, would not have been able to fine the paper or win an award to cover the couple's costs. Mr Crawford said: \"The case will give some comfort to people who find themselves the subject of unwanted attention from the paparazzi and will serve as a warning to editors to take care not to buy or publish pictures of people in places where they have a reasonable expectation of privacy unless they have either given consent or the intrusion can be justified on limited public interest grounds.\" Other celebrities, including Catherine Zeta Jones, Michael Douglas, Naomi Campbell and Sara Cox, are pursuing similar actions.",
  "title": "Showbiz couple win human rights case against Star",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "law/human-rights",
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy",
    "tv-and-radio/amanda-holden"
  ],
  "lead": "The actor Amanda Holden and her husband, the comedian Les Dennis, have struck a  significant legal blow against tabloid press intrusion. By Roy Greenslade",
  "id": "media/2001/dec/21/pressandpublishing.humanrights",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}