{
  "content": "Suffering from election exhaustion? You're not alone. Never mind the thousands of journalists dedicated to covering every step of the \"road to November\" and the mountain of reporting that comes with each presidential statement\u2013 during debate season, those same reporters simultaneously turn their attention to just 90 minutes of content. The avalanche of content that follows every televised battle is overwhelming. Enter: #smarttakes, your guide to making sense of what's coming out of the spin room. Over the next few weeks, we'll be on the hunt for the best commentary, analysis and reporting about the debates. Whenever we find something new, we'll add it here and by the end of round four, we hope to have a useful guide to understanding the 2012 debates. But considering the volume of stuff out there, there's no way we can do it alone. We need your help. Tweet us your recommendations using #smarttakes or toss them in the comments and we'll give you credit. Third presidential debate \u2013 October 22, 2012 We shouldn't have a 'foreign policy' debate, Ezra Klein Washington Post via @StuartMillar159 As hard as it is for us to talk about the global dimension of our problems, it's much, much harder to solve them. Passing Dodd-Frank or a flu-prevention bill through today's polarized Congress isn't easy, but it's at least a well-understood process. Trying to regulate global capital markets or quarantine flu outbreaks a world away isn't. Our tools for global regulatory coordination are very weak. And politicians have a bias towards problems they can solve rather than problems they can't solve. The final showdown, John Dickerson, Slate If the candidates are using foreign policy as a proxy to appeal to battleground-state voters, it means the substance is going to be a good distance from reality. Every president faces a foreign-policy crisis pretty early into his administration. When he does, he must adapt his thinking to conditions as he finds them, rather than to conditions he pretended existed when he was campaigning. Obama and Romney want to out-tough the other on Iran, John Hudson, The Atlantic Wire Given Sunday's mega scoop in The New York Times that the Obama administration and Iran have agreed to one-on-one talks after the election (which was then vigorously denied by the White House), Iran's nuclear program is expected to loom large at tonight's debate. But neither candidate has used the story to contrast his position with his opponent. Instead, the candidates appear ready to make tonight about rhetorical toughness than anything else. Second presidential debate \u2013 October 16, 2012 A Maelstrom for Moderators, Rem Rieder, American Journalism Review via @remrieder Crowley did the best she could, repeatedly intervening to keep the combatants on task. But let's face it: The moderator's powers are limited. Telling a president or presidential candidate on national television to shut the hell up probably isn't wise. Tackling them seems out of the question. What's a moderator to do? \u2013 October 17, 2012 Clearing the Record About Benghazi, Scott Shane, New York Times via @NYTJim The dispute over how the Obama administration has characterized the lethal attack on the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, last month boiled over once again in the debate on Tuesday night. But questions about what happened in the attack, and disputes over who said what about it, have left many people confused. Here are some of the facts as they are now known: \u2013 October 17, 2012 The Accident-Prone Candidate, Fred Caplan, Slate via @Slate In the few minutes devoted to foreign policy in Tuesday night's presidential debate, not only did Gov. Mitt Romney stumble, he gave President Barack Obama a boost.The moment came with a question about last month's attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, which killed four Americans, including the ambassador. Did the Obama administration refuse a request for extra security from the embassy, and if so, who's responsible for that? \u2013 October 17, 2012 Free Candy Crowley!, Chris Cillizza, Washington Post To be clear: the campaigns' desire to keep Crowley on the sidelines is not born out of any grand desire to \"let the people be heard\". Instead, it is a cynical play to avoid risk for both sides. The less direct questioning and, as importantly, direct follow ups the candidates are subjected to, the less chance there is they stray off their talking points and \u2014 gasp! \u2014 reveal a bit of their true characters. \u2013 October 15, 2012 Moderator Role Under Scrutiny \u2014 Before the Debate, Mark Halperin, Time The moderators' role is always complex. Journalists and news organizations jockey to get one of the coveted slots and become, in effect, partners with the commission and the candidates. But they are, of course, also reporters who fiercely guard their independence and bristle at any actual or perceived sense that their function is controlled by the organizers or the campaigns. All parties acknowledge that Crowley's behind-the-scenes role will be influential. She will cull the questions submitted by the voters who are invited to attend the debate, and then decide which ones will be asked and in what order. \u2013 October 14 2012 Crowley on moderating town hall debate: 'It's harder to dodge', Q&amp;A, CNN People say, \"Do you think you're going to ask a different question because you're female?\" and I think, \"I'm going to ask different questions because of all the things that I am.\" Bob Schieffer and I are different, Jim Lehrer and I are different, we come from different backgrounds, we've had different experiences, and certainly, one of the differences between them and me is that I'm female and they're male, so that's a part of it. \u2013 October 14 2012 Vice-presidential debate \u2013 October 11, 2012 Claims on Abortion and Afghanistan Get a Closer Look, David E Sanger, New York Times via @RuthS In the debate, Mr. Ryan subjugated his own views on abortion to those of Mr. Romney. Mr. Ryan has opposed abortion under any circumstances. He was a co-sponsor of legislation that would prevent federal funds from being used for abortion even in the case of rape, incest or a threat to the life of the mother. He also voted for the Protect Life Act, which grants hospitals the right to deny abortions to pregnant women who are dying. \u2013 October 12, 2012 Why Did Mitt Romney Pick Paul Ryan Again? \u2013 McKay Coppins, Buzzfeed via @StuartMillar159 The debate that took place \u2013 with vice-president Biden repeatedly cutting him off, and Ryan talking around specific questions about the bold budget-cutting plan he introduced in the House \u2013 was nothing like the crusading wonk-fest many Republicans expected from him months ago. \u2013 October 12, 2012 Eight Key Issues Missing From the Debates So Far \u2013 David A Graham, The Atlantic From gay marriage to jobs, the Federal Reserve to women's health, candidates have dodged some of the most important questions facing the United States. But time is running out: the final debate is on foreign policy, meaning there's only one chance at next week's debate to force Obama and Romney to reckon with these issues. \u2013 October 12, 2012 Debate decoder: Ryan and Biden's vice-presidential debate deconstructed, Nadja Popovich, the Guardian We tracked how Biden and Ryan answered Raddatz's questions. Were they fulfilling their role as \"attack dog\" \u2013 and if so, how did they attack? Who performed better as a \"wingman\", touting their running mate's credentials? \u2013 October 12, 2012 First presidential debate \u2013 October 3, 2012 The US presidential debates' illusion of political choice, Glenn Greenwald, the Guardian Most of what matters in American political life is nowhere to be found in its national election debates. Penal policies vividly illustrate this point. America imprisons more of its citizens than any other nation on earth by far, including countries with far greater populations. As the New York Times reported in April 2008: \"The United States has less than 5% of the world's population. But it has almost a quarter of the world's prisoners.\" \u2013 October 4, 2012 Fact-checking the first presidential debate of 2012, Glenn Kessler, Washington Post via @KatieRogers There they go again. Both President Obama and former governor Mitt Romney tossed out a blizzard of statistics and facts, often of dubious origin. Here are some highlights from the first presidential debate of 2012, with thanks to the readers who tweeted suggestions to #FactCheckThis. \u2013 October 4, 2012 What are we missing? Help us grow this list and tweet recommended links using #smarttakes or toss them in the comments below.",
  "title": "Make sense of the presidential debates with #smarttakes",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "us-news/us-presidential-debates-2012",
    "us-news/us-elections-2012",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "us-news/us-politics",
    "us-news/paul-ryan",
    "us-news/joebiden",
    "us-news/mittromney",
    "us-news/barack-obama",
    "media/media",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "We're collecting commentary and analysis from around the web. Add to this collection using  on Twitter",
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/oct/12/smarttakes-making-sense-of-debates",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}