{
  "content": "Naomi Campbell's successful claim for damages against the Mirror is the highest-profile victory of a major celebrity against the tabloid press in Britain since Elton John won a record payout from the Sun, which falsely claimed he slept with rent boys. But as editors and media lawyers scrutinised the judgment closely, a view was forming yesterday that Campbell's victory was not as sound as it first seemed. In his ruling, Mr Justice Morland stated categorically that the Mirror was entitled to reveal the facts of her drug addiction, because she had previously lied about the matter. At issue was whether the Mirror could publish covertly obtained details of her treatment. It seems that Mirror editor Piers Morgan would have been safer running a story headlined \"Naomi: My Drugs Shame\", rather than publishing what he believed was a more sympathetic expos\u00e9 of her struggle back to health. David Yelland, editor of the Sun, said the ruling would not prevent newspapers from continuing to uncover provocative stories. \"Will it change the way we do things? No, it will make us even more determined to uncover strong and controversial stories. We are not paid to produce boring newspapers, we are paid to produce newspapers that millions of people want to read. You can only do a job like this if you operate on the edge; you can't do it by occupying the comfortable middle ground.\" He said the detail of the ruling, which upholds Campbell's right to privacy only on the basis that her confidentiality was breached, meant the press would still be free to pursue stories of legitimate public interest. In an editorial comment for today's paper, he adds: \"Naomi Campbell is a liar, a loser and coward. In fact, she could be arrested and jailed for perjury next time she comes to Britain. She is also a serial drug abuser and a thoroughly nasty piece of work.\" And he fires a warning shot against the judiciary: \"If the legal establishment wishes to gather its tanks on Fleet Street's lawn we will fire back. Even if it means standing shoulder to shoulder with our most bitter rival.\" Alan Rusbridger, editor of the Guardian, said the ruling appeared to contradict an earlier judgment in the case of a as yet unnamed Premiership footballer, who has failed in his attempt to prevent the People from revealing details of his extramarital affairs. \"When you put Lord Woolf and Mr Justice Morland's judgments together, the law in this area is now somewhat confusing. It will need the law lords to pull together a number of judgments about privacy, confidence, libel and protection of sources, so we know more clearly where we stand.\" Simon Kelner, editor of the Independent, said the Campbell victory was based on \"narrow\" grounds.\" Kelvin Mackenzie, chief executive of TalkSport's parent radio group and former editor of the Sun, said the modest level of damages signalled that the courts would not sanction a legal free-for-all: \"\u00a33,500 wouldn't buy Naomi Campbell a hairnet.\" He pointed to the People case: \"What Lord Justice Woolf made clear in the footballer case, and what this [judge] made clear in the Campbell case, was that the courts do not want to get involved in stuff like this.\" But there was concern that serious investigative journalism could be compromised by the gradual extension of the law on confidence. Paul Gilbert, a media lawyer at London law firm Finers Stephens Innocent, said the case could encourage celebrities to use the law of confidence to attempt to gag the media. \"The media needs to be very careful about what they reveal and where information comes from. The judge has laid down markers... But also he is saying that celebrities should not think they can come along and expect the court to help gag the media. Mark Frith, editor of the celebrity magazine Heat, said the public's interest in the private lives of celebrities remained undimmed. \"Celebrities are talking about their private lives even more, and people find it ever more compelling.\"",
  "title": "Sun rallies behind bitter rival",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/press-freedom",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy",
    "fashion/naomi-campbell"
  ],
  "lead": "Naomi Campbell's successful claim for damages against the Mirror is the highest-profile victory of a major celebrity against the tabloid press in Britain since Elton John won a record payout from the Sun, which falsely claimed he slept with rent boys. ",
  "id": "media/2002/mar/28/pressandpublishing.privacy2",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}