{
  "content": "The platform that can boast 1.96m likes (as of 30 May) in three days for Kimye's first kiss as a married couple has announced that its advertising platform is coming to the UK later this year. This certainly sounds very exciting for the UK's top brands who no doubt will be eager to test out this new way of reaching consumers, and understandably so. Instagram is compelling primarily because it focuses on what is currently working best in social media: visual content. Introducing ads on Instagram last year was Facebook's first signal of intent that it wanted to develop the platform into a profitable business. If you are in the US \u2013 and soon the UK, Canada and Australia \u2013 Instagram will now be able to show you a post from a brand, whether you follow it or not. In America a small committee of brands with astronomic social media budgets were part of the first campaigns that ran on the network. Fast forward eight months to now and since the platform is (for now) reserved to a handful of US brands with huge budgets, insights and results are hard to find. Instagram reports \"positive results\" which in \"some cases were above the ad industry's average\". Do a bit of digging around and you can find that users are seeing ads (Ben &amp; Jerry's reached 9.8m people during an eight-day period) and more importantly they're reacting to them (one Michael Kors post has received over 36K likes). Given that its user base is largely outside the US, it makes sense for Instagram to expand its ad platform into other countries. But not every brand has a massive social budget to partner with Instagram to simply see what happens. Traditionally, when a platform that has been ad free moves to the \"dark side\", there is potential for a user backlash as they feel that their experience has been disrupted, and not necessarily for the better. Just because Ben &amp; Jerry's reached 9.8m people, doesn't mean that they effectively engaged with them. The headline stat might be impressive, but what's the tangible outcome? The drive towards personalisation is changing social advertising and arguably you don't need big budgets \u2013 or the new advertising platform \u2013 to mobilise and create brand advocates on Instagram. Following a few simple steps can help brands to achieve maximum impact at a fraction of the cost. For example: 1) Ask yourself why are you on Instagram This may sound silly but if your community already follows you on Facebook and Twitter you need to give them a reason to follow you on Instagram. Posting exclusive content can make the difference between a classic salesy approach and a more genuinely interesting content strategy. 2) Be creative and visually compelling People are 40% more likely to have a better response to visual content as opposed to plain text \u2013 that's why visual social platforms such as Instagram and Pinterest work well. Having a clear and recognisable visual identity in all your posts helps you to be consistent and shape a brand image. 3) Use relevant hashtags and mentions From a business perspective, hashtags allows your posts to be visible to people who search for certain keywords or products names. You can use a popular or trending hashtag to get noticed and join the conversation. 4) Make user-generated content worthwhile If people like you or your products they will eventually post about them. Consider all mentions, hashtags and tags from users by liking and commenting and sharing this \"earned content\". Increasing organic engagement is much more likely to ensure relevancy, brand image and drive valuable interactions that have a real authenticity about them, as opposed to going en masse and losing control of your audience and your message. Good community management is all about creating the right reactions. With a captive and ever-growing user base, you don't need the new ad platform to do that. Rapha\u00ebl Diai is community manager at Collider To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled 'Advertisement feature'. Find out more here.",
  "title": "Instagram adverts are coming to the UK \u2013 but do brands need them?",
  "lead": "With the ad platform reserved for brands with large budgets, there are cheaper ways to use the network to drive engagement",
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/instagram",
    "media/advertising"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media-network/media-network-blog/2014/jun/13/instagram-adverts-uk-brands-cost",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}