{
  "content": "Facebook's Mark Zuckerburg has announced that his company will acquire photo-sharing app Instagram for a whopping $1bn in cash and shares. Why did Facebook pay such a massive price? We're collecting insights and observations from industry observers, reporters and readers. Tweet us @GuardianUS, or toss in your thoughts in the comments below. Silvia Killingsworth on what Instagram has that Facebook needs: If Twitter occupies the hyperverbal space in our shared Internet brain with bits of news, jokes, and news-jokes, Instagram falls in the hypervisual part, which revels in the bits of visual candy in the world around us. It combines the sharing of a social app with the emotion of a photo album, and sharing plus feelings equals sharing feelings\u2014an activity neither Mark Zuckerberg nor his company are known for. Silvia Killingsworth, The New Yorker Paul Ford on Instagram selling out: Remember what the iPod was to Apple? That's how Instagram might look to Facebook: an artfully designed product that does one thing perfectly. Sure, you might say, but Instagram doesn't have any revenue. Have you ever run an ad on Facebook? The ad manager is a revelation \u2014 as perfectly organized and tidy as the rest of Facebook is sprawling and messy. Paul Ford, New York Magazine 'It's simple: it's all about (mobile) photos', says Kara Swisher Astonishingly, Facebook users already upload an average of more than 250 million images daily, making it the most popular photo-sharing service on the Web. But it's not the best by far and not the most mobile, which is Facebook's biggest weakness \u2014 that has been accomplished many others, especially Instagram, the favorite of power users who scoffed at Facebook's weak tools. (The horror of no filters!) ~Kara Swisher, All Things D Today Facebook has NO revenues from mobile. None. That's amazing, since so many people, hundreds of millions of us, use Facebook on mobile clients. That will change very quickly after the IPO. Instagram will play a huge role here, plus Facebook gets a very talented mobile development team that has built world-leading mobile apps on iOS and Android (which got a million users in its first day). ~ Robert Scoble, Rackspace startup liason manager, via Quora Facebook may also need Instagram to help it keep up with the constantly changing whims of the online audience. Facebook was born in the computer-and-browser era and is trying to adapt to a world that is increasingly mobile-centric. Instagram is a purely mobile creation. ~Jenna Wortham, New York Times Seeing the Instagram acquisition as merely quashing a potential competitor to one aspect of Facebook's offering is far too narrow an outlook, though. Better, surely to view the deal against the increasingly familiar backdrop of Facebook's \"It's complicated\" relationship with Google and Apple. One of the things people like most about the Google+ social network is its photo-sharing features. Buying Instagram not only bolsters Facebook's capabilities on that front \u2013 photo filters in its official app within a few months, anyone? \u2013 but also keeps the startup out of Google's clutches, should it have been tempted to make its own acquisition bid. ~Stuart Dredge, The Guardian Facebook and Instagram are two distinct companies with two distinct personalities. Instagram has what Facebook craves \u2013 passionate community. People like Facebook. People use Facebook. People love Instagram. It is my single most-used app. I spend an hour a day on Instagram. I have made friends based on photos they share. I know how they feel, and how they see the world. Facebook lacks soul. Instagram is all soul and emotion. ~Om Malik, Gigaom To the extent that Facebook is succeeding in its bid to become an alternative web, where it controls the ecosystem rather than existing as part of the wider open web, it can afford to spend any amount of money to buy what amounts to a feature. But there's another way to think about this deal, too, and it summons other lessons from the ICQ era. ~Dan Gillmor, Guardian US Comment is free If Facebook didn't figure this problem out, it might have gone the way of Friendster. Friendster lost to Facebook because users found they could do what they wanted to do with much more speed and simplicity on Facebook than they could on Friendster. ~Nicholas Carlson, Business Insider I think it's a bit of a departure in that Instagram will remain live and separate. But I think that's the right play here. FB trying to subsume IG would harm and/or kill it. Now it can still flourish on its own. There will be tie-ins, obviously. I see it as not unlike Google/YouTube in that regard. ~MG Siegler, Hunter Walk, Jeremiah Gordon, Narendra Rocherolle, Sujay Jaswa, and Jason Calacanis, Branch Facebook, with 800 million users, was freaked out by a tiny startup. It's always good to be paranoid, but when a giant company, one that's valued at $100 billion, is suddenly scrambling to protect its core business, it has to be worrisome. ~Jay Yarow, Business Insider",
  "title": "Why did Facebook buy Instagram for a whopping $1bn?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "business/business",
    "business/technology",
    "technology/startups",
    "technology/instagram"
  ],
  "lead": "Why did Facebook pay such a massive price? We're collecting insights from industry observers \u2013 and we'd like your thoughts",
  "id": "commentisfree/cifamerica/2012/apr/09/facebook-instagram-1bn-storify",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}