{
  "content": "There was something comforting about last week's gripping spat between James Murdoch and the editor of the Independent, Simon Kelner. It harked back to a time of green eye-shades and sleeve suspenders, where a few lines of inky endorsement in the right tabloid could create governments and ruin reputations. In truth, while colourful and diverting, it is likely to have much less impact on the future power of the traditional news media than a conference held in San Francisco last week populated not by newspaper proprietors but by web developers and entrepreneurs. Facebook's F8 conference is where the world's most influential website shares its new ideas with the world, in a very laid-back Californian atmosphere, mainly through its not very laid-back founder, Mark Zuckerberg. In an incredibly short space of time, the growth of the site where people store details of their lives and lists of acquaintances and friends has outstripped any other on the internet. As people like to listen to other people rather than to algorithms, its dominance will surely only increase. In the past year, Facebook's user numbers rose from 200 million to 400 million, and last month it took a larger share of total US internet visits than Google for the first time. For existing media, Facebook is the new Google, offering unparalleled growth opportunities that will inevitably arrive at the cost of some control. It has a friendlier face as it is not so obviously swiping the advertising, but stealthily it has already \"stolen\" much loyalty and user data, which media organisations now have to borrow back. At F8, Facebook showed off an idea called Open Graph, which would open up more of its user activity to other sites, and talked more about the ability to put recommendation or \"like\" buttons on pieces of content and journalism across the web, allowing news brands to gain much more apparent immediate relevance within the social networking world. Potentially terrific news for advertisers and those who want everything strewn over the web, potentially alarming for those who wrongly regarded Facebook as a private place, or who have genuine reservations over privacy. The sheer scale of Facebook and the extra ease with which its vast number of users can spread links, applications, bits of videos and snippets of news across all manner of digital platforms is, in one sense, awe-inspiring, but on the other hand raises a whole new set of issues to grapple with. To completely spurn out of hand the incredible reach this platform could offer would simply be madness, at a time when finding a relevant audience for news and other content is the biggest challenge. But to hand over all of this activity wholesale to Facebook suggests that within five minutes there will be another head-scratching session as media executives hunt for the teaspoons from the family silver Google left behind. The Guardian's head of social media, Meg Pickard, takes the sensible view that publishers need to decide how much time to spend feeding and editing for this new distribution beast, versus how much time is spent on making their own content and experience better. In most cases the choice is not either/or, but both. The influential tech site Read Write Web last week declared that any news organisation that did not use this potential would quickly wither. Web developers should, it said, be swapped for Facebook developers. Some of this is undoubtedly overdoing the threat and the opportunity, but the urgency carries a core truth, that social media is now also just \"media\". Maybe James Murdoch's time would have been better spent asking Zuckerberg what on earth he was playing at rather than traducing poor Kelner.",
  "title": "Why Facebook's Open Graph idea must be taken seriously | Emily Bell",
  "lead": "F8 conference reveals plans that would allow users to recommend content from other sources. By Emily Bell",
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/jamesmurdoch",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/google",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/pda/2010/apr/26/facebook-f8-emily-bell",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}