{
  "content": "A Hollywood wedding at a plush New York hotel, a famous bride being fork-fed wedding cake by her equally famous husband, a British paparazzo photographer, and two celebrity magazines desperately vying for exclusive access. These were ingredients of the high court action that began on February 3, after several delays caused by the UN missions and film premieres of the film star couple at its heart, and finally ended six weeks later. From the outset the case brought by Catherine Zeta Jones and Michael Douglas against Hello! magazine raised the possibility that a legal right to privacy could be established. The Douglases claimed that under the Human Rights Act, incorporated into English law in October 2000, they were afforded a right to privacy at their wedding at the New York Plaza Hotel in November 2000, even though they had struck a \u00a31m deal to sell their wedding pictures to OK! magazine, a fellow claimant in the action. They are claiming \u00a3500,000 in damages from Hello! while OK! is claiming \u00a31.75m. A British paparazzo, Rupert Thorpe, son of former Liberal leader Jeremy Thorpe, succeeded in sneaking past the high security at the wedding and took photographs with a camera held at hip level, which were then transmitted, via Californian paparazzo mastermind Philip Ramey, to Hello!. On the first day of the court case the judge, Mr Justice Lindsay, heard from Michael Tugendhat QC representing the Douglases and OK! how the first few days of their married life were not spent basking in matrimonial bliss, but in a legal battle to prevent Hello! from publishing the unauthorised snaps. Initially the couple managed to gain an injunction, but this was lifted a few days later, and copies of Hello! containing six sneaked picture of the wedding ceremony and reception went on sale in newsagents. Husband and wife were \"deeply distressed\" by the pictures, Mr Tugendhat told the court, a distress heightened by the \"unflattering\" nature of the pictures. No bride would want pictures released that showed her eating wedding cake, he argued. They struck an exclusive deal with OK!, he added, because they realised there was \"a legitimate interest in what they do\" and \"did not want to appear aloof and to shun their public\". Hello!'s lawyers told a very different story. Zeta Jones and Douglas forfeited their right to privacy by turning their wedding into an \"international media event\", exploiting their union for financial gain and to further their film careers, argued Hello!'s counsel James Price QC. Moreover, he argued, such \"spoilers\" are commonplace in the world of celebrity magazines, in fact OK! had been guilty of similar operations, such as when it obtained pictures of the wedding of Gloria Hunniford and Stephen Wray in September 1998, despite an exclusive contract between the television presenter and Hello! On February 10, the Hollywood circus came to town when a heavily pregnant Zeta Jones and her husband arrived at the high court to give evidence in person. Camera crews from around the world gathered at the side entrance to the royal courts of justice straining to catch a glimpse of the duo through the shaded window of their chauffeur-driven car, and the Sun sent an open-topped bus to drive past bearing a banner saying, \"The media circus has come to town\". In her newly acquired Los Angeles twang, Welsh-born Zeta Jones told the judge how the \"sleazy\" pictures that appeared in Hello! made her feel \"devastated and violated\". The sneaked snaps that appeared in Hello! were of vastly inferior quality to the official OK! pictures approved by her and her husband, Zeta Jones claimed. While OK! featured a picture of Zeta Jones feeding Douglas, a photograph in Hello! of Douglas feeding her with wedding cake made it look as though he was \"shoving the fork down my throat\". \"It's offensive because I didn't think I would want the world to see that at my wedding day all I did was eat,\" Zeta Jones said, adding that the unauthorised pictures were \"cheap and tacky\" and made it appear that the guests were \"doused in bad disco lighting\". She denied that her real motivation in bringing the court case was to defend her right to control her image. \"It's not about control, it's about recognising that just because I'm in the public eye it doesn't negate the fact that I can let my hair down.\" Douglas backed up his wife's comments about their wedding, saying: \"I felt like a Peeping Tom was present.\" The excitement of an Oscar-winning performance over, the court settled back into the nitty gritty of exactly how the paparazzo photographs got into Hello!'s hands and whether there had been any prior arrangement with Ramey to obtain pictures of the event. Hello!'s Spanish owner Eduardo Sanchez Junco denied any deal had been struck before the wedding took place, but admitted that Hello! had hired two aeroplanes at 175,000 euros each to fly extra copies of the magazine from Spain to the UK if any pictures were obtained. The waters were muddied by an argument over whether Hello!'s former \"fixer\" and international editor, the Uruguyan-born Marquesa de Varela, had been pressured into putting her name to a fax saying that she had sold the pictures to Hello!, thus relieving the magazine of some of the blame. Hello! insisted that the statement she signed - which transpired to be inaccurate - was the result of a error and not deliberate. The Marquesa, described in the high court as a \"volatile and eccentric lady\", said that she signed the fax because she feared for her livelihood. Putting such questions aside, today's ruling has tremendously important implications for the culture of celebrity journalism as a whole. In setting out his case for the claimants, Mr Tugendhat referred to supermodel Naomi Campbell's case against the Mirror - which revealed details of her drug addiction. The judges said it was not necessary for a specific relationship of confidence to exist in order to prove a breach of privacy. Campbell initially won her case, However, the court of appeal dismissed her argument, not because it denied her privacy had been breached, but because it said the Mirror was justified in breaching it. He also referred to a ruling by the European court of human rights in January, which held that the right to privacy of Geoffrey Peck, a man who was caught on CCTV attempting to commit suicide, was breached by a local authority which published the pictures as part of a campaign to highlight the success of the cameras. Mr Price, on behalf of Hello!, argued in contrast that there is no right to privacy separate from the law of confidence which already exists in English statute. The Douglases' case, said Mr Price, turned on whether they could prove a breach of confidence. This, he argued, they manifestly could not, as any guest at the wedding could have conveyed the details that appeared in the sneaked photographs by word of mouth.",
  "title": "How the Hello! spoiler went wrong",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/television",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "film/michael-douglas"
  ],
  "lead": "Ciar Byrne gives the background to today's ruling in the Zeta Jones/Michael Douglas v Hello! privacy case.",
  "id": "media/2003/apr/11/privacy.pressandpublishing3",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}