{
  "content": "The British teenager accused of bringing down the website of the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) is being held in custody at a London police station for further questioning over allegations of computer hacking. Ryan Cleary, 19, was unshaven and wearing a white T-shirt and matching tracksuit bottoms as he stood in the dock for a 10-minute hearing at Westminster magistrates court in central London on Thursday morning. Cleary, who spoke only to confirm his name and date of birth, was remanded in custody at London's Charing Cross police station for a maximum of three days for further questioning about the alleged attacks. The Essex teenager was charged with five offences on Wednesday as part of an international investigation into cyberattacks against the CIA, the US Senate and the electronics giant Sony. Cleary was charged by the Metropolitan police with three specific attacks, including one earlier this week on Soca. Cleary is also charged with attacks against music trade bodies the British Phonographic Industry and the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry. Ben Cooper, the lawyer representing Cleary, said he was \"fully co-operating\" with the ongoing police investigation and that he \"wishes to co-operate further\". Cooper described Cleary as a \"vulnerable young man\", adding that there were \"certain matters being looked into with regards to his vulnerability\". His mother, Rita Cleary, dressed in black, sat with another female relative in the public gallery for the hearing. Cleary, whose neighbours say is a bright teenager who rarely ventured outside of his bedroom, looked continually at the packed press bench as his lawyers told the magistrates court that he may yet face further charges. The investigation into whether he is involved in any other attacks, including ones outside the UK, is continuing. The method Cleary is alleged to have used is a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack against all three websites. He was also charged with constructing a botnet, a network of infected computers that can be used remotely to direct attacks. Alleged attacks against the BPI and the IFPI were carried out as part of an Anonymous campaign in October and November last year.",
  "title": "Teenager accused of LulzSec hacking remanded for further questioning",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/lulzsec",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world",
    "technology/computing"
  ],
  "lead": "British teenager accused of bringing down website of Serious Organised Crime Agency held at London police station. By Josh Halliday",
  "id": "technology/2011/jun/23/teenager-accused-lulzsec-hacking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}