{
  "content": "Digital technology company Phorm is facing a major setback, with several of the world's largest dotcom companies considering boycotting its controversial online advertising technology. Last month Open Rights Group, the privacy campaign group, sent a letter to nine of the internet's biggest names \u2013 including Google, Bebo, Facebook and Yahoo \u2013 asking them to opt out of Phorm's technology \"to protect your users' privacy\". UK-listed Phorm has developed technology that allows internet service providers to track what their users are doing online. ISPs can then sell that information to media companies and advertisers who can use it to place more relevant adverts on websites the user subsequently visits. The technology has been tested by BT in the UK, with Virgin Media and Carphone Warehouse's TalkTalk also interested in using it. Although Phorm emphasises that the information is made anonymous and consumers can opt out, it has been attacked by privacy campaigners as online snooping. Phorm's technology could falter without the involvement of the major dotcom brands as potential advertisers. Google is understood to be considering boycotting Phorm; a spokesman said a response to the Open Rights Group's letter is expected in days. A spokesperson for Bebo, meanwhile, said: \"We have received the letter and are giving it careful consideration from privacy and business perspectives.\" Rival social networking site Facebook believes it is up to individual web users to lobby their ISPs if they have concerns about the use of Phorm's technology. Last month Facebook's privacy chief Chris Kelly said: \"If [users] are deeply unhappy with it we hope they express that as clearly as possible to the ISPs.\" Online advertising insiders point out that it is no surprise that companies such as Google are looking to boycott Phorm \u2013 its technology is in direct competition with their own attempts to get involved in \"behavioural targeted advertising\". In 2007 Google, which already dominated the online search market, snapped up internet advertising network Double\u00adClick, which serves adverts to many of the internet's top websites. Google already had a massive amount of information about what visitors to its own search engine were interested in, which it could use to place relevant results on its Google.com site, but the DoubleClick deal extended its reach to third party websites. Three weeks ago Google started testing \"behaviourally targeted\" advertising on some of those sites, including the New York Times, Reuters, Napster, ITN, AutoTrader and Rolling Stone. Its service uses a temporary ID tagged on to a user's browser, known as a cookie, to track what that user does online. When the user visits a website in Google's advertising network, that website owner can show them an advert based on what they have been doing elsewhere on the web. Cookies are already in widespread use on the internet, but the sheer scale of Google has raised concerns about it testing even more intrusive online snooping. Google, however, allows user to opt out of its new advertising system by accessing the privacy settings on its homepage.",
  "title": "Dotcom companies consider boycott of Phorm's online advertising technology",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/advertising",
    "business/phorm",
    "business/business",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/bebo",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/cookies-and-web-tracking"
  ],
  "lead": "Google and Bebo could opt out of Phorm's digital technology that allows advertisers to target individual users online",
  "id": "technology/2009/apr/02/dotcom-boycott-advertising-phorm",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}