{
  "content": "If the events of the past week seem on the surface to be about systemic corruption in British public life then there is also an ulterior process at work. Strange as it may be to state this, the unholy triple alliance between media, the political class and the police may be characterised as a merely epiphenomenal imbroglio. It's been widely noted that the News of the World, despite being Britain's largest circulation newspaper, was nonetheless something of a loss leader for News International in an era when not just hard news but also the kind of malicious tittle-tattle that was its stock in trade has been speedily uploaded on to the web. A tectonic shift is taking place in our culture, namely the transition from a print/broadcast era in which information, opinion and entertainment is transmitted down a pyramidal social structure, to a pro forma egalitarian web culture in which there is no longer the mediation of a class of editors and opinion-formers, but instead everyone swims about in a protoplasmic gloop of titillating supposition. Marshall McLuhan's equation of the medium with the message has become a shibboleth to be lisped on a thousand thousand message boards, but less widely understood is that the \"glocal\" phenomenon of the web plus the internet has yet to crystallise into a definable medium \u2013 we live in an interregnum between cultural hegemonies, and in such times, as Marx observed of political interregnums, the strangest forms will arise. I would argue that the emergence of reality television and the so-called \"democratisation\" of celebrity in the early 2000s is key to an understanding of how this interregnum is eating holes in the British social fabric. Underlying such programmes as Big Brother and the domination of TV schedules by talent shows featuring ordinary people, and other competitive formats that bowdlerise the abilities of people already in the public eye \u2013 Strictly This, I'm a That \u2013 lies the unspoken assumptions not only that anyone no matter how talentless can be famous \u2013 Warhol's prophecy \u2013 but that even those who have talents can be forced to abandon them if they're not fungible in the media marketplace. If you can make a living reading the news you must \u2013 must! \u2013 be able to ice dance, or else your news-reading is of no account. These developments are the ructions in the informational crust resulting from the underlying tectonic shifts; and it is nowise unexpected that on this delusory levelled media playing field the following equation follows: if anyone can be a celebrity then anyone can be exposed. The hacking into the 7/7 victims' phones, or the relatives of servicemen killed in Afghanistan, or even the phone of a murdered schoolgirl is only logical continuation of this process, it represented the final evolution of the print-based groupthink before it atomises into the flash-hatreds of the web. The web \u2013 like any other emergent medium \u2013 is still inchoate. The claims of Mumsnet, Twitter etc to be intrinsically \"democratic\" forces for good that have helped to bring down evil empires in Tehran, across the Middle East and now in Wapping are wholly specious. We will remain in this interregnum only for as long as media organisations remain unable to make web-based content \u2013 whether editorial, entertainment or social media \u2013 generate genuinely self-sustaining revenue. When it does begin to do so new hierarchies will be erected very speedily to exploit it, and my suspicion is that these new hierarchies will look very much like the old. As for the public appetite for prurient gossip \u2013 and in particular the appetite of the English, Wilde's \"nation of hypocrites\" sans pareil \u2013 that remains greater than ever. Moreover, the web, by creating a sense of insulation from consequences in its users, allows for still more savage monstering. Just a casual glance at social networking threads exposes you to a bewildering array of digs, slights and innuendos. For now the exposures of the web are at the \"villagey\" level of the pogroms enacted during Mao's Cultural Revolution, but once the new hierarchies emerge so will the old forms of media control and media scapegoating. The Chinese analogy isn't facile \u2013 and has a further dimension: it's often said of the Chinese Communist party that it has bribed its people with consumer goods in exchange for political conformity, arguably we here in the \"liberal\" west have been bribed with the cultural freedoms of unlimited malicious gossip, porn and other transgressive experiences in return for swallowing the bitter pill of economic neoliberalism with its ever widening gap between rich and poor. In the last analysis, you don't have to be a Marxist to grasp that at root, issues of media influence are good old-fashioned questions about who owns the means of production and dissemination \u2013 but it probably helps.",
  "title": "The News of the World closes as media's tectonic plates shift | Will Self",
  "lead": "Will Self: We are in a strange interregnum of titillation between cultural hegemonies, before familiar hierarchies appear online",
  "tags": [
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/social-media",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/internet",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2011/jul/11/news-of-the-world-media-shift",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}