{
  "content": "Lawyers representing the Mirror, the Sun and the News of the World have dropped their bid to overturn an order granting anonymity to child killer Mary Bell and her teenage daughter. The newspapers, who were named as defendants in an action brought by Ms Bell - who now lives under an assumed name - to extend her legal right to remain anonymous, said they will not oppose the injunction, but reserved the right to return to court at a later date. A spokesman for Mirror Group Newspapers said: \"We do not wish to become embroiled in this litigation and because we are seeking to retain the right to go back to court and seek a variation to the order if we want to, we have said we are not opposing the continuation of the injunction.\" Dame Justice Butler-Sloss yesterday adjourned a hearing behind closed doors at the family division of the high court and decreed that existing injunctions banning newspapers from revealing the identities of both mother and daughter would remain in place. No date was given for the resumed hearing, but the judge said she hoped the majority would take place in public. At an earlier hearing in April, Edward Fitzgerald QC said mother and daughter would require protection \"both from the risk of attack and for the protection of their private life and the rehabilitation of the mother\". Dame Elizabeth heard that the daughter had grown into a normal, happy young woman leading a law-abiding life. In December 1968 Ms Bell, then aged 11, was convicted of manslaughter of two small boys aged four and three and was detained at Her Majesty's Pleasure until 1980. When she was released in 1980 she was given a new identity as part of her rehabilitation programme. An injunction barring a newspaper revealing her new name was imposed in 1998. The new case has arisen because her daughter is now 18.",
  "title": "Tabloids drop bid to overturn child killer ruling",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": " Lawyers representing the Mirror, the Sun and the News of the World have dropped their bid to overturn an order granting anonymity to child killer Mary Bell and her teenage daughter. By Ciar Byrne",
  "id": "media/2002/sep/20/newsoftheworld.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}