{
  "content": "Kate \"refrain from taking photos\" Bush it most certainly was not. For those lucky enough to get in to Kanye West's surprise show at Koko in London on Tuesday, documenting the night on social media was taken as a given. After the show started near 1am \u2013 official 11pm doors time, be damned \u2013 West shared the stage with grime artists Skepta, Jme, Novelist and Meridian Dan and also brought out hip-hop artist Cyhi da Prynce and American rappers Big Sean, Vic Mensa and Raekwon of Wu-Tang Clan. We've scanned through posts from the night and collated them here, so you don't have to. If you were at Koko and have pictures or photographs of your own that you'd like to share, drop links to them in the comments section \u2013 yes, you can gloat a little. In the meantime, here are some of the highlights from a span of gig attendees: The fans Securing tickets was only the first hurdle. Fans then queued outside Koko for a couple of hours, before doors opened after midnight. Once inside, US and UK artists swapped back and forth on tracks including West's Mercy, a cover of Drake's All Me, Skepta's recent single Shutdown and Big Sean's I Don't Fuck With You. The musicians Rappers and producers present on the night shared noticeably calmer posts on Twitter and Instagram. Skepta helped push news of the tickets before the gig, and producer Just Blaze put up an Instagram picture of West from the gig captioned with \"walks\": a play on the title of song Jesus Walks. The press Caroline Simionescu-Marin, editor of grime music site GRM Daily, captured plenty of video footage on the night. Her videos have since cropped up on the Fader and Complex. BBC Radio 1Xtra's Austin Daboh was also on hand, pushing out a couple of Twitter videos on the night and adding more excitable analysis in the morning on Wednesday 4 March. Though his phone might have died during the gig, BBC Radio 1 and Radio 1Xtra DJ Peter \"Mistajam\" Dalton tweeted and went on to share a Snapchat story of his videos from the night. 1Xtra's DJ Semtex also shared a series of Instagram photos and videos from the show (and an obligatory post of his VIP pass). Here's the setlist, not to be confused with the parody list on Setlist.fm that at one point claimed the set opened with Kanye and Hacktivist jamming on Bernard Cribbins's Right Said Fred and featured a complete runthrough of Iron Maiden's Seventh Son of a Seventh Son album. That's Not Me Mercy German Whip 96 Fuckries Cold So Appalled CyHi Freestyle Blessings All Me (Drake cover) Clique RBX Shutdown New Slaves Wolves U Mad Power Can't Tell Me Nothing I Don't Fuck With You All Of The Lights Good Life Jesus Walks It Ain't Safe Don't Like Black Skinhead Blood On The Leaves C.R.E.A.M. (Wu-Tang Clan cover with Raekwon) All Day All Day (yes, twice)",
  "title": "Kanye West at Koko: fans, musicians and media react",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "music/kanyewest",
    "music/rap",
    "music/music",
    "culture/culture",
    "music/hip-hop",
    "media/social-media",
    "music/grime"
  ],
  "lead": "Kanye West's surprise show at London's Koko on Tuesday turned into a social media flurry of excitement for punters and performers alike",
  "id": "music/musicblog/2015/mar/04/kanye-west-surprise-koko-setlist-fans-musicians-media-reaction",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}