{
  "content": "July 2005. The scene is more like The Godfather than Sliding Doors, and Rupert Murdoch has just made Intermix an offer it can't refuse. The prize? MySpace \u2013 the biggest website in America. Viacom has been negotiating for weeks with Intermix, but Murdoch locks his team in a room withthe MySpace owner Intermix for the weekend, and they come out with a signed deal for $580m. Viacom's chief executive, Tom Freston, was on holiday in Hawaii that weekend. He later lost his job. We know the rest of the MySpace story, but if Freston hadn't got on that plane to Honolulu, things could have been so different \u2026 June 2005. Freston misses his flight. In the airport's VIP lounge, he spots one of the News Corp M&amp;A team. Freston tears back to his office and hand delivers the letter that completes the deal. Viacom, the owner of MTV, has just bought MySpace for $500m. The deal releases its co-founders, Tom Anderson and Chris DeWolfe, from Intermix, an unspectacular online retailer. Viacom uses MySpace to redefine itself online. The site needs a complete engineering overhaul, and anything not related to music or entertainment is stripped out. MTV programming, bite-sized interviews, exclusive tracks and live shows are weaved throughout the site. \"We want MySpace to keep its hacky, creative ethos,\" executives might have said, \"while making the site cleaner and less cluttered.\" 2006. Viacom recruits Mike Davidson, the chief executive of Newsvine.com, as much for his design nous as his business skill. The subsequent redesign attracts a wave of new users. Noting the popularity of a rapidly growing college network called Facebook \u2013 which has started opening beyond students \u2013 Viacom decides to prioritise its core area of music, adding uploading, sharing and a simple shopfront tool that lets unsigned musicians sell their songs. Later that year, MySpace signs generous key deals with the major labels for both downloads and streaming, exploring \"tip jars\" for favourite artists and a series of live events on a revenue share basis. A new music player is launched; users pay to access more than 10 songs per month. The site minimises display ads, while allowing users to devise their own ads and update the \"tear-off ads\" beloved of bands needing drummers. 2007. Noting the popularity of status updates on MySpace, Viacom partners with a small San Francisco startup called Twitter, which has 340,000 registered users. MTV experiments with tweets as a backchannel for TV. 2008. Now the biggest social network on the web, MySpace partners with the European startup SoundCloud to extend its network of unsigned musicians and artists to share their own material, and builds in a payment mechanism to allow them to sell their work. 2009. MySpace buys EMI \u2026 Freston did catch that plane to Hawaii, of course. In reality, even if Viacom had bought MySpace it would never have made this much of it, just as AOL proved with Bebo. So is the corporate media acquisition the kiss of death for seemingly healthy social networks? It is sobering to look back on the coverage of the News Corp deal in 2005. At the time Murdoch said that MySpace would be \"an ideal foundation on which to meaningfully increase our internet presence\". From our lofty position on the Hill of Hindsight, we can see that was comically unrealistic for a site whose biggest charm was its unruly and unpredictable users. Clay Shirky says that the best innovation comes from those with no time and no money; MySpace had both. The LA party scene must have been quite a distraction for Anderson and DeWolfe, especially with their new-found cash. But what MySpace urgently needed was better technology, a coherent redesign and more sensitive advertising. It had no incentive to innovate with any of that until it started feeling the hot, moist breath of Facebook breathing down its back \u2013 and by then, it was too late. MySpace can't be described as a failure; it defined a chunk of internet culture for a good three years. But it will be known as a failure because it was bought by News Corp, and there is only one interpretation of losing $580m. Perhaps the biggest lesson to learn from Google, Facebook and Twitter is that the only true road to freedom lies in being independent.",
  "title": "Imagine what MySpace could have been had Viacom intervened \u2026",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "media/viacom",
    "media/mediabusiness",
    "media/news-corporation",
    "technology/myspace",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Jemima Kiss: If Viacom's Tom Freston had hijacked the News Corp deal, what would have become of the social networking site?",
  "id": "media/pda/2011/jan/17/myspace-social-networking-jemima-kiss",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}