{
  "content": "When you've just dodged a potentially lethal pothole on your bike, you want to report it there and then. Soon you'll be able to do just that. The developers of fixmystreet.com revealed last week that an iPhone interface is in the works. Fixmystreet already enables anyone with a browser to report potholes, fly-tipping and other nuisances without needing to know which public authority is responsible for them. All you have to do is click on a map and enter the nature of the nuisance, along with a photograph if you like. Although Fixmystreet was originally funded by the government, it is very much not a government web project. It is one foray in a guerrilla campaign of helpful but often disconcerting websites to emerge from the charity MySociety, which celebrated its fifth birthday last week. And there is a promise of more to come \u2013 so long as it finds a way out of what its director, Tom Steinberg, calls \"deep financial insecurity\". If you've been on the web to probe democracy or public administration, you've probably been to a MySociety site. The charity's best known product is probably TheyWorkForYou, which lays bare elected representatives' personal productivity (to the alarm of some). MySociety also built Downing Street's e-petitions site, which boasts 8.9m electronic signatures \u2013 though little noticeable impact on government policy \u2013 as well as the PledgeBank good causes site and Whatdotheyknow, a web clearing house for Freedom Of Information requests. The common theme is cheap and cheerful open web technology tipping the relationship between people and government, in favour of the people. Steinberg last week called on ministers to spend more of the \u00a313bn annual IT budget on more projects such as these, and less on giant databases. The future, he said, must lie with \"technologies that empower and uplift, not depersonalise and degrade\" \u2013 an implicit challenge to schemes such as the national ID register. Outsourcing 'cult' He also laid in to the \"cult\" of outsourcing IT work. \"Government in the UK once led the world in its own information systems, breaking Enigma, documenting an empire's worth of trade. And then it fired everyone who could do those things, or employed them only via horribly expensive consultancies. It is time to start bringing them back into the corridors of power.\" Unlike many web activists, Steinberg has the ability to be taken seriously. As co-author of last year's Power of Information review, he has the web 2.0 philosophy ringing through Whitehall \u2013 not least in the cause of free government data. Steinberg didn't come up with the idea of MySociety \u2013 he credits that to a fellow policy wonk, James Crabtree \u2013 much less create its websites, which are mainly the work of volunteers. However, the 31-year-old former Downing Street insider's sharp political antennae and humour have been crucial in keeping doors open to the very organisations that MySociety's websites apparently threaten to subvert. Looking back over five years, Steinberg admits that he has shifted the culture of government \"less than we might have hoped\". On the other hand, he's pleasantly surprised by the survival rate of MySociety sites. \"We were thinking in dotcom boom terms, that we'd have a 70% failure rate. In fact we haven't shut down anything at all.\" Another shock was the body that turned out to be most resistant to MySociety ideas. \"I didn't think we'd see parliament being so crushingly slow.\" The new FixMyStreet site is likely to tread on more official corns. Unlike most MySociety efforts, it operates in direct competition to a central government service, the Connect to your Council function on the Directgov website. (In a perfect example of unjoined-up e-government, FixMyStreet was originally funded by the old Department for Constitutional Affairs, while Connect to your Council was run by the former Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.) It has also infuriated some local authorities by sidestepping their own electronic problem-report forms with emails that are more awkward and expensive to handle. At a recent conference on web 2.0 organised by the government IT managers association Socitm, Steinberg came under fire for increasing the number of avoidable messages flowing between citizens and councils at a time when the government's policy is to slash these by half. Some participants demanded that MySociety create dedicated links with councils' customer relationship management systems. Steinberg countered that not only would this be impractical \u2013 several hundred interfaces would have to be written \u2013 but that it misses the point of what is wrong with current e-government systems. \"We want councils to understand that what they're building now is not good enough for the 21st century. This is an opportunity to recognise that they need to make their systems parts of the internet rather than little fiefdoms.\" Birthday warning At last week's birthday party, Steinberg tempered his celebratory mood with two notes of warning. One was on MySociety's own sustainability \u2013 to transform political systems, it has to play a long game. \"MySociety needs to work out how to be here not just in six months, but in 20 years. To do this, it needs to secure funding.\" The second was to the government, represented by Tom Watson, the Cabinet Office minister whose endorsement of the Power of Information programme has placed MySociety thinking at the heart of government policy. For all such good intentions, the government's recent record of IT innovation has been \"a tragic farce\", Steinberg said. \"I hope we don't have to wait until a new government comes in to have a decent shot at slaying some of the shibboleths that stand in the way of decent reform.\"",
  "title": "Interview: Tom Steinberg of MySociety",
  "lead": "Tom Steinberg has shown the government what a joined-up web presence is through his work for the MySociety charity",
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/iphone",
    "technology/politics",
    "politics/politics"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2008/oct/23/tom-steinberg-fixmystreet-mysociety",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}