{
  "content": "The URL shortening service tr.im is shutting down after discovering that nobody wants to buy it. The latter fact may not be surprising to many readers. But it did to the tr.im people, whose web page announces that tr.im is now in the process of discontinuing service, effective immediately. Statistics can no longer be considered reliable, or reliably available going forward. However, all tr.im links will continue to redirect, and will do so until at least December 31, 2009. Your tweets with tr.im URLs in them will not be affected. No business we approached wanted to purchase tr.im for even a minor amount. There is no way for us to monetize URL shortening -- users won't pay for it -- and we just can't justify further development since Twitter has all but annointed bit.ly the market winner. There is simply no point for us to continue operating tr.im, and pay for its upkeep. Quite how much it costs to keep tr.im going isn't revealed, but that point that \"there is no way for us to monetise URL shortening\" is obvious enough - unless you put ads in between every click (which would be monumentally unpopular) it should be obvious that you can't. And it's hardly as if there's a premium on being able to take a URL, generate a hash from it and store that in a database, and rig a web server so that you generate a 302 redirect to the original URL when someone queries the hash page. It's so simple it could be a homework exercise for first-year computer science undergraduates. You can feel the resentment in that phrase \"Twitter has all but annointed bit.ly the market winner\" - as though that should somehow not be allowed. But bit.ly has gone to some expense to relocate its servers closer to Twitter's (after Twitter stopped using tinyurl as its default shortening service in May), and has suggested that it might be looking to launch a \"real time news service\" - based on the fact that it is shortening something like a billion (yes, billion) URLs per month. Tr.im managed \"tens of thousands\" per day from thousands of users. Once again, the internet is brutal to those who don't achieve scale. However the losing team doesn't fancy bit.ly's chances: the data that tr.im generates \u2014 the hottest links that people are sharing right now \u2014 is all well and good, but everyone has this data. tr.im gets hit by countless bots every day farming this data to create and operate websites such as tweetmeme.com. So, *everyone* has this data, meaning it is basically worthless *by itself* to base a business on (as bit.ly and others are attempting to do) at least in our humble opinions. No, URL shortening isn't a business in itself; the fact that the oldest, masl.to (since purchased by tinyurl, which might be the second-oldest), still keeps going is testament more to its owner's determination than to the inherent value of such hosting. The problem though is that wherever those tr.im links still exist on the web, they'll stop redirecting from the beginning of the new year. Or, if we know the habits of spammers, they'll redirect somewhere you'd really rather they didn't. Bit.ly has said that it will step in to save tr.im's service: let's see how much tr.im charges for its database of hashes. We did feature a number of the URL shorteners just over a year ago: Another problem about increasing traffic, however, is: how does a free service scale? Andrew Chapman, one of the four people behind UK-based qurl.com, is not convinced it's possible to turn that traffic into money. \"This kind of service, people expect to be free,\" he says. Qurl shortens links to a five-character string and also allows users to pick meaningful words. He says: \"I thought originally I would monetise that as a premium service, but I never got around to it.\" However, there is some worth to be had from URL shortening - if it's not your principal business, but done as a valued adjunct. Hence for its Twitter feed Techcrunch uses its own tcrn.ch shortener, developed for it by a third party. That means it knows precisely who's clicking what, when. So is the message that URL shorteners are a commercial disaster zone? For bit.ly, no: it's doing well by being hitched to Twitter. If Twitter goes away, it's likely some other short messaging service will rise up in its place - in which case bit.ly will be there, able to take advantage. [Updated to finish sentence about how bit.ly will step in to take over tr.im.]",
  "title": "Tr.im URL shortener to shut: is there any profit in contraction?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "The URL shortening service tr.im is shutting down after discovering that nobody wants to buy it. The latter fact may not be surprising to many readers. But it did to the tr.im people, whose web page <a href=\"http://tr.im/\">announces that",
  "id": "technology/blog/2009/aug/10/url-shortening-shutdown-trim-bitly",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}