{
  "content": "Northcliffe Media's decision to withdraw its legal action against Twitter is likely to be portrayed as a humiliating climbdown by the publisher and a victory for freedom of expression. But I understand why Steve Auckland did it and I do have some sympathy for his plight in coping with the anonymous person who tweeted as @UnSteveDorkland. Let's dispense with the idea that Auckland is some kind of shrinking violet. He is a seasoned newspaper executive who didn't get where he is today without using the occasional sharp elbow. And he supports Leeds United! My understanding is that he was quite prepared to take personal criticism from the anonymous tweeter. His major concern was about the effect the tweets were having on members of his staff. Now, I'd like to think that everyone in journalism - whether in management or editorial - is tough enough to laugh off criticism. That should go with the territory. As I often say, in this business we hand it out and we should be big enough to take it. Throughout my six years writing this blog I have been subjected to all sorts of criticism, usually from people happy to be cloaked in anonymity, and I accept that situation. It's just how it is. I rarely, if ever, respond, allowing readers to make up their own minds about the validity of comments from trolls. Indeed, the moderators who beaver away at The Guardian sometimes remove comments about me from this blog that I would rather they left up (on the understanding that people might think it was me who was restricting their freedom to be offensive). Similarly, I refuse to get upset about those who also tweet about me. We in the media just have to grow thick skins. So, naturally, I was disappointed when Auckland, who has always struck me as one of the most straightforward, straight-talking and transparent of newspaper managers, launched his action. What tipped the balance evidently was the number of tweets - 700 in four weeks; the often abusive nature of the content; the offensive references to senior Northcliffe Media staff; and the disturbing inside knowledge. Was it a current or recently past employee? Here are three examples: During the Spain v Italy World Cup final match: \"This final reminds me of Sassi's promotion prospects. Over.\" Mike Sassi edits the Stoke Sentinel. After the Germany v Denmark World Cup match: \"Glad Bender didn't come on for Germany. No need to see if Rich is around before cracking jokes in t'office on Monday #awkward.\" Rich Mead is the company's executive director. \"Shit, Daintith just nearly caught me cracking one off in trap three of the exec toilet. Fortunately I had Razzle mag inside copy of Thanet Times\". Stephen Daintith is DMGTs finance director. I can imagine that Northcliffe Media staff, many of them unhappy about the company's various cost-cutting moves, enjoyed the in-jokes (though they strike me as juvenile). In my view, the best response to such nonsense would have been to ignore it. That tactic is surely the best answer to trolls. In my experience, they eventually give up or, through repetition, lose their sting. Had the tweets had been libellous, it would be a different matter. Instead, these were annoying, silly and occasionally offensive. A Northcliffe Media spokesperson has explained that the \"barrage\" of tweets \"amounted to cyber-bullying and harassment\" and that they illustrated \"a disturbing obsession on the part of the anonymous writer.\" I agree with the second part of that argument, but so what? As for the bullying aspect, I remain unconvinced, though I haven't seen all 700 tweets I am sure that what really upset Auckland and the other \"victims\" was the anonymity. It always hurts to be insulted by someone you suspect you know but aren't quite sure. There are good reasons for whistleblowers to keep their identities secret, and Twitter is a perfect platform for such activity. Using it to snipe at former colleagues - which is surely what @UnSteveDorkland has been doing - is altogether less principled. But, of course, everyone has a right to express themselves whether they do so openly or covertly.",
  "title": "The rights and wrongs of trying to unmask @UnSteveDorkland",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/northcliffe-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/local-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "technology/internet",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "us-news/california"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade is sympathetic to the plight of  Northcliffe Media's boss but wishes he had turned his back on the mystery tweeter",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2012/aug/03/1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}