{
  "content": "\u2022 Read more on using social media in schools here It is clear that one of the major obstacles to adopting social networking is that of e-safety. This issue of safeguarding is commonly used as a barrier to innovative technology use with reasons cited such as \"I'm not technically proficient\". However, there is very little technical knowledge required, if any at all. A clear understanding of the fundamental issues and how to risk assess are a significant stepping stone to overcoming this barrier. Social networking raises many obvious (and some not so obvious) e-safety concerns in schools. E-safety from the context of school governance is much like health and safety; the responsibility of the school and its staff, governors and parents is to mitigate risk by reasonable endeavour. In much the same way that technology should not drive the curriculum, e-safety should not be your showstopper (in most cases) regarding innovation. Regardless of what we do there is a risk involved; driving to and from work, lifting something off the floor and, as I found out recently to the detriment of my back, keeping fit! In all of the above examples we are taught to be safe by doing, not by sitting in front of a Powerpoint. In the same way I don't promote sitting in a classroom and teaching e-safety because it is difficult to teach something which is constantly evolving; certainly you can discuss the risks (predators, bullying, personal information, trolls to name a few) but a fundamental outcome of e-safety is to empower the user from a young age to enjoy technology through safe use. Again going back to the driving analogy, practicing your driving skills and risk assessing hazards becomes second nature; this is a life skill, not a lesson. The three fundamentals that I work to are policy, liability, safe use. Safe use: We need to dispel some of the ridiculous myths and scaremongering which seem to prevail with many internet experts. On an almost daily basis I am reminded that all our children are in extreme danger, that predators are hanging around every corner of the web, their bank accounts are going to be continually emptied and the Nigerian government person who kindly emailed me to say that she needed to shift some funds because they had too much is really a scam. Of course I am not belittling the facts, I am acutely aware that every time I get into my car and drive there is a significant risk to myself and others. I am also fully aware of internet risks, and that's the point: I am aware of them and I risk assess against them. Liability: Schools need to understand liability; in other words what could happen if I don't do something, or if I don't do something correctly. A good example of this is internet filtering. When a filter is simply used to block websites (and I have seen some horrifically restrictive policies) you are wrapping the child in cotton wool. It is detrimental to the education of the child and is detrimental to the teacher in so many ways. On the other side of the coin there are many that call for schools to have no internet filter. From a liability perspective this is impossible for a school (although I have seen it done). Illegal downloads, illegal images, and so on, would put the school at huge risk. Don't use filtering as a tool to block \u2013 use it as a tool to manage. Policy: Only when you understand safe use and you are aware of the liability to the school can you wrap this up in policy. Policy is simply your school rules, written in easy to understand language (age appropriate) and understood by the whole school. Social networking has all the same risks as the traditional online safety risks. Many of the e-safety reasons cited for not using social networking in school are understandable because the risks are simply not fully understood. This is because of a lack of awareness, which in some cases will be down to scaremongering. This then culminates in the inability to risk assess because some schools don't know what to risk assess against, and how to mitigate those risks. I have written a brief document for schools titled Twitter for Schools: Policy, Liability, Safe Use. It would be better to download this instead of reiterating everything here but the bottom lines are: If you do want to use social networking in school: \u2022 Start off small and don't take bigger steps until you are comfortable. For example use a broadcast account as a parental engagement tool (Facebook and Twitter are both good for this). \u2022 Engage the parents first, nurture them along with you and I think you will be surprised the positive effects this can have. Tell them what you are doing and why, for example; better engagement, up to date and quick communication, cost saving (printing and letters), urgent messages (school shut due to snow) and so on. \u2022 Discuss what you wish to achieve with all school staff and why. Discuss the tools you will use and who will use them. \u2022 Set boundaries of use in regards to appropriate/inappropriate. \u2022 Risk assess \u2013 note all the risks that everybody raises (regardless of how silly or unlikely some may sound). \u2022 Expand the risks and mitigate them all (if possible). \u2022 If you can't mitigate, is it a red or amber risk? If red there is a problem, if amber can you mitigate using reasonable endeavour? \u2022 Wrap all this up into a social networking policy and cross reference to other appropriate policies (for example, acceptable use policy, behaviour, bullying and so on). \u2022 It's also important that, before you start, you engage all staff with an e-safety awareness session. If you can do the same with parents, great. If parents' sessions at your school are poorly attended try to get the news out using alternative means. It sounds a lot, but it isn't once you're in the flow and others are onboard. Alan Mackenzie has been working in the area of e-safety for nearly six years. Visit his website here and you can follow him on Twitter @esafetyadviser. Read Alan's guidance on the Guardian Teacher Network - Twitter for Twitchy Teachers and there is also a resource about safe use and security which offers some valuable hints and tips. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Sign up to the Guardian Teacher Network to get access to more than 100,000 pages of teaching resources and join our growing community. Looking for your next role? See our http://jobs.guardian.co.uk/jobs/education/schools Schools jobs site for thousands of the latest teaching, leadership and support jobs",
  "title": "Don't let e-safety worries be a barrier to using social media in school",
  "lead": "Simple steps from e-safety expert Alan Mackenzie on how to improve the safety and security of social networking in schools",
  "tags": [
    "teacher-network/teacher-network",
    "education/education",
    "education/schools",
    "education/secondary-schools",
    "education/primary-schools",
    "media/social-media",
    "education/teaching",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "teacher-network/2012/jul/26/social-networking-school-safety",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}