{
  "content": "Mention Tumblr to most people in the UK and they will raise a quizzical eyebrow. The site, however, is huge in the US, boasting 13.4 million users, and is gaining popularity on this side of the Atlantic too. In other words, they're a big deal in social media so we're excited to use their platform to share our journalism further. So what's Tumblr \u2013 and why is the Guardian interested in it? As discussed in Talking shop, Tumblr is a platform that aggregates trends in visual, video and audio media. Think of it as the modern day scrapbook which you can scroll through; a social sharing website on which users post their own content and are encouraged to \"reblog\" others, adding their own comments and notes as they go. You can explore Tumblr by their \"search tags\" function, or just follow the creators and curators that you like. The Guardian already has several Tumblr accounts: our main feed, one for fashion and another for data, to name a few. Last week, we finally launched our Comment Tumblr account, creating a space which will aggregate the best of Comment is free's opinion and debate. What can you expect from this new account? Snippets from our best-loved columnists, daily cartoons, videos from our various series, and striking pictures from our wonderful weekly photography series, hosted by art critic Jonathan Jones. We will also post audio (have you listened to our Big Ideas podcast yet?), and reblog the best of the online zeitgeist. As ever, it is a work in progress. If you have ideas that you'd like us to explore, or if you'd like to share who are the best Tumblr political blogs, please do so below. We're listening. Oh, and follow us.",
  "title": "Guardian comment launches on Tumblr",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/tumblr"
  ],
  "lead": "Follow our newest Tumblr account for columnists, cartoons and multimedia series",
  "id": "help/insideguardian/2012/jan/12/tumblr-guardian-comment",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}