{
  "content": "Last Thursday I learned that my friend George had died after a short illness. My first thoughts were for his family; George was one of those men for whom the term \"larger than life\" might have been coined, and his absence would be deeply felt. And then there was the funeral \u2013 assuming it was not a private, family affair \u2013 should I attend? The question was moot because I'd never actually met George in the flesh. We had become friends through the wonder of the internet, brought together through a mutual love of cricket. We \"met\", if that's the correct term, on a cricket forum where his closely reasoned yet contentious posts struck an immediate chord with me. I will miss his brazen attempts to wind me up, attempts that often succeeded. His death has made me wonder about the correct \"form\" for cyber grief. Is it like any other grief, expressible in the same way? These days there is burgeoning interest in virtual relationships \u2013 and some days it seems that there is no aspect of human behaviour, from transgressive sexual relations to falling in love, from larceny to largesse, that cannot be conducted down the wire. But just as phone sex is not the same as sex-sex, so the question arises \u2013 is a virtual friendship the equal of a \"real\" one? Looking through my list of friends on Facebook, I'd have to conclude \"no\". Looking through my son's list would make that answer even more emphatic. But just as there are degrees of friendship in real life, from casual acquaintance to BFF, so there are in virtual life. Surely, you might argue, if it feels as if George were a friend, then that should be enough. I should grieve as if we had met every Thursday night in The Dog and Duck. The problem is that part of me regards that feeling with suspicion. Like many others, particularly those of my generation (I'm 55), I was not swept along by the tsunami of emotional incontinence that attended the death of Princess Diana. Of course I was sad at the untimely death of a young woman, but I found the acres of cellophane-wrapped flowers and the accompanying public ululation mawkish and absurd, and felt absolutely no compulsion to add to it. Is my sadness at the death of someone whose face I knew only from a 300Kb avatar any more authentic? Because if it isn't, then I would be letting George and his memory down if I were to pretend that it was. The kind of mild compunction I'm now feeling might be exacerbated were I to attend the funeral, where I might be called upon to give an account of how George and I knew each other. I think I would find it hard to confess that we hadn't actually met, as such, but had merely exchanged pixels. These finer feelings are, I would contend, increasingly absent the younger one is; I cannot imagine anyone of my son's age worrying over these minor niceties of \"proper behaviour\". His answer would doubtless be \"whatever\". Maybe the vaunted levelling power of the internet age will help to put paid to the rationale for whole swaths of protocol. I'm not convinced that this would be an improvement. For all the irritations of having to conform to expected models of behaviour, there is also something liberating about them. Knowing in advance how one is expected to behave in certain circumstances frees one from the necessity of fretting about it \u2013 I don't have to worry about what to wear to a funeral, because protocol dictates it. But while I might be relieved to know that all I have to do is actually to find my black tie and I'm good to go, others might feel unreasonably restricted, thinking that George would far rather see them in a clown's costume, or tennis whites, or that sombrero that was bought on a shared holiday to Tenerife \u2013 anything rather than sombrely suited and booted. But that's the problem with funerals \u2013 George doesn't care what you wear, because he's not actually there. Those he has left behind are, however, and it is their wishes to which one should be attentive. So the question is \u2013 would George's widow and family welcome a virtual friend to his final goodbye? Or should I just stay at home and get mildly pixillated in his memory? \u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree",
  "title": "Should one attend the funeral of a 'virtual friend'? | Edward Collier",
  "lead": "Edward Collier: As I mourn the death of a friend I made on a cricket forum, I am left pondering when a cyber friendship becomes a 'real' one",
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/death-and-dying",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "lifeandstyle/relationships",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/may/22/should-one-attend-funeral-virtual-friend",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}