{
  "content": "Anyone expecting a defining digital moment during this election would have been disappointed. The web doesn't create moments like that, but reflects them \u2013 and the chaos of this election, from Bigotgate to the hung parliament, was echoed across social media. As well as the ubiquitous wisecracks, Twitter suits fast-breaking news snaps and statistics and so works well on results night. The story of the evening was the shambles at polling stations from Leeds to London. Angry voters tweeted, while others filmed the chaos on their phones and quickly sprang into action on Facebook. The support Nick Clegg had generated during the TV debates seemed to evaporate, and the Lib Dems were notable for their near-invisibility on the web. Matthew McGregor, the London director of Blue State Digital (which worked on Obama's campaign), says it was astonishing that they failed to exploit their popularity surge. \"There was no email right after that [first] TV debate, no request for donations or activism. And they don't seem to have laid the foundations online in advance, either.\" The Conservatives led a well-funded but pretty directionless web campaign. But the real excitement, and progress, has been in Labour's largely unreported grassroots campaigns. \"Philosophically they seem to have the right idea,\" says McGregor, \"getting supporters to make phone calls and knock on doors. A big part of campaigning should be using new media tools to build relationships that help in activating activists. What the Conservatives have done seems to be based on a philosophy that believes in focusing on people who are undecided. I am not so sure that's the smart thing.\" While Cameron's campaign stole Obama's soundbites, Labour explored that campaign's organisation tools, motivating volunteers. Grace Fletcher Hatwood joined Hash Mob Mondays, where supporters used the party's phonebank tool to call prospective voters. Where Tory digital media strategy has centred on fundraising, she says, Labour has focused on raising support. \"We're rich in people, and I suppose they are rich in money.\"",
  "title": "Parties did not make the best of social networking in this general election",
  "lead": "Facebook and Twitter reflected opinion but there was no defining digital moment. By Jemima Kiss",
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "politics/general-election-2010",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2010/may/10/parties-social-networking-general-election",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}