{
  "content": "So now comes word that Mark Zuckerberg \u2013 apparently unsatisfied with having enlisted one out of every seven living human beings to the social networking service he founded \u2013 wants to leave his physical stamp on the Earth. It's a moment that seems to come for many commercial enterprises. In founding a town for some 10,000 of his employees to call their own, the Facebook mogul is following generations of entrepreneurs, from the Dutch East India Company to Walt Disney. Out of expedience, paternalism, promotional value or sheer ambition, these concerns found it useful to aggregate some portion of their labour pool at a single, highly ordered site \u2013 the better to ensure that employees' energies were properly directed toward the bottom line. Zuckerberg's version is to take the form of a 200-acre private municipality adjacent to Facebook's Menlo Park headquarters, masterplanned by long-time collaborator Frank Gehry and ever-so-humbly dubbed \"Zee Town\". There are two questions to be asked here. Firstly, do towns decreed by design ever work? And what about those, like Zee Town, that are created as expressions of a particular corporate culture? Of cities-by-fiat, the consensus seems to be that such places can indeed eventually come into their own, but only after a few decades \u2013 it takes time for a genuinely organic urban culture to bed in. From a slate-wiping fresh start, places such as Bras\u00edlia and Chandigarh needed a full half-century to develop anything like a life of their own. And at that, only after very significant informal settlements had grown up in the interstices of their triumphal top-down plans. Similar things could be said of the British new towns of the post-war epoch, as well as the many inner-city regeneration projects of that vintage \u2013 though in the latter case the impetus was not so much the blind Corbusian faith in the clean slate, but what to do with entire districts flattened by Nazi bombing. Just as pompous gestures like Brasilia were over time transformed, made human by infill and adaptation, so did the forbiddingly Ballardian sterility of the \"new town\" eventually surrender to the casually accretive processes of everyday life. Milton Keynes certainly seems to be doing well for itself, and even poor, much-derided Cumbernauld, with its magnificently mega-structural town centre, has over the years mellowed to the point that it was honoured at the 2012 Scottish Design Awards. So there doesn't seem to be anything in principle that says a town designed by a single author cannot work for its residents, at least by some criteria. But Zee Town is to be a straight-up company town, and here the circumstances are a little muddier. Reportage on Zuckerberg's plan has invariably name-checked two prominent late-Victorian exemplars \u2013 Port Sunlight, the model village founded by William Lever in 1888 for employees of the Lever Brothers' detergent business, and Bournville, George Cadbury's 1879 experiment in total living \u2013 but these probably don't furnish us with the most useful precedent. Port Sunlight survives today as a quaint relic, and for all that the water from its taps flows Cadbury purple, Bournville feels less like a town that some madcap Willy Wonka might have built for his workforce of exploited Oompa-Loompas, than a perfectly ordinary model village. Though both Lever Brothers (as Unilever) and Cadbury are brands still very much present today, the towns they built have long since ceased to function as expressions of corporate will. We might also consider the fate of Magnitogorsk, an industrial city of more than 400,000 that lies in the Ural Mountains, a thousand miles east of Moscow. Chartered in the 1740s, Magnitogorsk never came to much until the founding of its mighty iron and steel works during Stalin's first Five Year Plan between 1928 and 1932. At the time the German architect Ernst May was brought in to helm a daring transformation. If not quite the Frank Gehry of his day, May was widely admired for the successful programme for workers' housing he executed in Weimar-era Frankfurt, and the Soviet authorities jumped at the chance to implement his then-cutting edge plans for a \"linear city\" in the Urals. Unfortunately, they neglected to inform May that the development they'd already embarked upon was utterly incompatible with the flexible framework he'd imagined. Not for the last time, control won out over choice in the design of a new city. And this brings us to Zee Town. Quaker Bournville, \"Christianizing\" Port Sunlight, Stalinist Magnitogorsk: though the particular flavour of paternalism may have variedfrom place to place, they expressed in their built form a will to total control over the circumstances of employee life. If it now seems hard to imagine any contemporary worker agreeing to such constraints, consider that's precisely what residents do when they voluntarily sign on to the covenants and conditions of a New Urbanist outpost like the Disney-developed Celebration, Florida \u2013 and that doesn't even come with a pay-cheque. And not even old Uncle Walt at the height of his powers was capable of reaching quite as deeply into residents' lives as the Zuck. Zee Town's residents will be surrendering the most intimate facts of their being to their employer/landlord via their very use of the service they work every day to maintain and extend. (It will be interesting to see how this shakes out, compared to the nearby campus that Bjarke Ingels and Thomas Heatherwick are designing for Google, an enterprise with comparable \u2013 if not still greater reach \u2013 into the digital self.) Above all, places like Port Sunlight and Bournville were supposed to be the seeds of a new society that would propagate across the earth. In the case of May's original plan for Magnitogorsk, this was all but literal. Each extension of the linear city was designed to throw a rhizome across the West Siberian plains \u2013 an infrastructural trellis around which a particularly Soviet conception of urbanism could collect. For that matter, few now remember that Disney's prior adventure in town building, EPCOT theme park in Florida, was intended not merely to be a functioning municipality but a replicable recipe; the acronym stands for \"Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow.\" In some sense, each of these company towns was in dialogue with the society that contained it. But Zee Town is precisely the opposite. Its most worrisome aspect is how clearly it reflects the tech industry's continuing withdrawal from the public realm. On the ground, to this one time San Franciscan, residents of the Bay Area no longer feel bound by allegiance to a common past, nor do they appear to aspire to a common destiny. Hang around the stops serving the private buses that ferry employees to Google or Apple, or stroll the spendy boutiques of San Francisco's startlingly gentrified Mission District, and you can sense the tech elite palpably delaminating from the rest of society, peeling away from the shared spatial domain. The industry's conscious decoupling has been a primary source of tension \u2013 and an inescapable topic of conversation \u2013 in the Bay Area at least since the financial downturn of 2008. Ingels and Heatherwick's plans for Google at least nod at the controversy, paying lip service to the notion that any enterprise that has profited so richly from the broad public's unconscious behaviours ought to return some benefit to that public. Their blobjectivist garden is intended to be traversed and enjoyed by ordinary Californians. By contrast, Zee Town feels caught flatfooted, insulated by self-regard or lack of care from feeling like it needed to engage the social complexity all around it. About as close as it comes to acknowledging that complexity is Facebook director of property John Tenanes' inane promise that \"random things can happen\" in Zee Town, \"just like in any other city.\" Tenanes might want to think twice before invoking the notion of the unforeseen. Company towns don't often come to a soft landing. For every quaint afterlife enjoyed by a Bournville or a Port Sunlight, there are hundreds of such places abandoned when the winds of commerce shifted \u2013 the sands of the American west are full of mining towns that disappeared when the seam ran dry, and railroad towns that up and left when trucking captured the lion's share of overland freight traffic. Nor are fickle commercial fortunes the only contingencies that the architects of Zee Town will need to weather. With all the endless variables in the evolution of any real human dwelling place, not even an enterprise equipped with yottabytes of data will necessarily be able to forestall all the emergent vexations that fate and time might gin up for it. History suggests that the only wise approach to designing a company town is admitting from the outset something that ought to be eminently familiar to both Zuckerberg and his employees. It's complicated.",
  "title": "Is Facebook's 'Zee Town' more than just a Mark Zuckerberg vanity project?",
  "lead": "The Facebook mogul is following a long line of entrepreneurs from Walt Disney to George Cadbury in creating a 200-acre, 10,000-strong private municipality for his staff. Adam Greenfield asks whether company towns are ever a good idea",
  "tags": [
    "cities/cities",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/mark-zuckerberg",
    "artanddesign/architecture",
    "artanddesign/frank-gehry",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "business/cadburyschweppes",
    "business/business",
    "technology/computing",
    "media/media",
    "us-news/san-francisco",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world",
    "artanddesign/artanddesign",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "cities/2015/mar/10/facebook-zee-town-mark-zuckerberg",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}