{
  "content": "Reuters has published some social media guidelines in its handbook of journalism. Dean Wright, Reuters' global editor for ethics, innovation and news standards, announced the new guidelines yesterday. While the guidelines encourage Reuters journalists to use social media and stress that it is a powerful new tool, Reuters journalists are asked to get in contact with their line manager if they want to use them in a professional context. The guidelines also recommend journalists set up a professional account \u2013 alongside their private account. This advice is a rather stiff approach to social media, which is a world where professional and personal lives collide. In general, the Reuters' social media guidelines stress the most important aspects of journalistic ethics is to always say you are a Reuters journalist, avoid being biased, be careful not to reveal your sources, by publicly \"following\" or becoming their \"friend\", or not to tweet a scoop if Reuters wants to send it first over the wires. The social media guidelines are part of the news agencies advice about \"Reporting from the Internet\" which cover general guidelines for their reporters representation in online chat-rooms or online forums, or the use of online encyclopedias as a starting point for research, but not an attributable source. Partly Reuters' social media guidelines don't read like editorial guidelines, but like a useful instruction manual on how a journalist can get started in the new world of social media as they answer questions like \"What is Twitter?\" and explain that social media feels private, but is public. Reuters' struggle to encorporate social media with journalism is not an uncommon problem. A lot of news organisations have found it hard to take a firm position on how their journalists should use social media. Shall journalists be incredibly wary when using social media? Or should they be expected to use it when it leads them to information? While the BBC editorial guidelines mention social media only very briefly by warning its journalists to consider the impact of re-publishing third-party material, BBC World Service director Peter Horrocks recently asked his staff to make better use of social media to take it more into account as a journalistic source. An approach that was answered by a mild uproar. However, Wright agrees that journalists should have the ability \"to use their brains and to see \u2013 and report on \u2013 a world that's changing every day.\" In his view, this demand of the profession also applies to social media usage. Full version: Reuters' Handbook for Reporting from the Internet.",
  "title": "Reuters sets up social media guidelines",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "culture/twilight",
    "media/news-agencies",
    "media/journalism-education",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/reuters"
  ],
  "lead": "Reuters has announced an update of their handbook of journalism to include social media",
  "id": "media/pda/2010/mar/11/reuters-sets-up-social-media-guidelines",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}