{
  "content": "The X Factor is not a show afraid of a drama. The contestants' heart-wrenching back stories, trials, tribulations and dreams are a vital part of the show's makeup \u2013 more important, some argue, than the talent of those on stage. But the controversy over the teenage rejected contestant Gamu Nhengu, eliminated from the show at the weekend, reached a pitch that even Simon Cowell may find unsettling today when it emerged that she has been ordered to return to her native Zimbabwe. The UK Border Agency confirmed that the 18-year-old, controversially shunned by judge Cheryl Cole despite a strong performance and significant support on Saturday, will have to leave the country. She had been able to remain in the UK as a dependant while her mother, Nokuthula Ngazana, studied at university. Ngazana's visa has expired and the family's application to remain has been rejected as they did not meet Home Office criteria. The family now must leave the UK voluntarily or face deportation. The news sparked a renewed wave of support for the singer. Thousands of fans who had signed an online petition to have her reinstated to the contest now say they will write to MPs and immigration officials to protest against the deportation. One, calling themselves Gamu Record Deal, wrote on a Facebook support page: \"If X factor dont want Gamu. If Gamu is going to be deported lets get Gamu a Recording Contract.\" Gary Spencer, organiser of one of the campaigns, urged fellow fans to bombard Westminster with emails. \"This is an absolute travesty,\" he wrote. \"I have a pre-written email with all the MP, Home Office and immigration contacts so I think we should email them en masse. Reply to me and I will send you this email to forward on in your name.\" Others urged fellow supporters to write to the Home Office. Officials are understood to be speaking to Gamu and her family, who arrived in Scotland from Zimbabwe five years ago, about leaving the UK. They do not have a right to appeal and the singer cannot apply separately to remain here. A further twist in the tale may come on Saturday, when Gamu fans will be hoping that the singer receives one of the judges' wildcard nominations, enabling her to stay in the competition. It remains to be seen what impact if any this would have on her immigration status. A border agency spokesman said: \"The applications made by Ngazana and her family were considered in line with the published immigration rules. \"Ngazana's application was refused as it did not meet all of the conditions for approval. \"Her family, who had applied as her dependants, were therefore also refused. \"Where people are found to have no right to remain in the UK, we expect them to leave voluntarily.\" A Home Office spokesman said the decision to axe the student from the X Factor was the business of the TV show. The X Factor has vehemently denied suggestions that Cole had been influenced by visa issues. A spokeswoman said: \"Gamu's visa being processed was not the reason that she didn't make the final 12.\"",
  "title": "Gamu Nhengu's fans unite to fight X\u00a0Factor rejection and deportation threat",
  "lead": "Facebook campaign backing teenager gathers pace as UK Border Agency orders her to return to Zimbabwe",
  "tags": [
    "tv-and-radio/the-x-factor",
    "tv-and-radio/tv-and-radio",
    "tv-and-radio/entertainment",
    "culture/television",
    "uk/immigration",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/zimbabwe",
    "world/africa"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "tv-and-radio/2010/oct/06/gamu-nhengu-x-factor-deport",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}