{
  "content": "Hello! today turned its fire on the Marquesa de Varela, the aristocratic fixer who clinched many of the royal exclusives that made the magazine's name in the UK. The marquesa sat impassively at the back of the court as Hello!'s defence barrister, James Price QC, described her as a \"volatile and impetuous woman\". Hello!, it is alleged, was involved at the highest level in the scam to get sneak photos of the wedding of Catherine Zeta Jones and Michael Douglas. The magazine's proprietor, the colourful Spanish entrepreneur Eduardo Sanchez, and his legendary fixer, the marquesa, were both said to have been involved. But the marquesa alleged she was made forced to make false statements by Hello! magazine about the incident backm in November 2000 that resulted in the lifting of injunctions barring distribution of Hello!'s Zeta Jones wedding edition in November 2000. She said her company, Neneta Overseas Ltd, sold exclusive rights to the wedding pictures to Mr Sanchez on Sunday November 19. But Mr Price today told the court it was a false statement because she had not been involved in conversations that night and had no rights to the pictures. He claimed she had signed the statement without checking its veracity because she was about her dependants and her dogs, of which she has almost 200. He said Hello! had drafted a witness statement for the marquesa to sign but \"could hardly have expected that she would, without questioning it, sign and send to counsel information which was simply false to her knowledge\". The marquesa however said she was confused and worried that if she didn't sign the statement she would jeopardise her relationship with Hello! and income for her family and up to 200 dogs. \"I was very surprised to have received such a fax as it was requesting me to say something that was not true. I was still very concerned as to what I should do because my whole income depended on my relationship with Hello! and Eduardo. \"If I refused to help them then I was sure that the relationship would be put in jeopardy and my income would disappear. The situation was all the more difficult for me as I support my three children, six grandchildren, an elderly mother and almost 200 dogs.\" The confusion over the deal surrounding the pictures has been one of the key areas of investigation today, the sixth day of Ms Zeta Jones's law suit against Hello!, which denies it made any orchestrated attempt to sneak a photographer into her wedding. Mr Price told the court that the marquesa's peripatetic existence, which involved frequent travel between her home in Uruguay and offices in Spain, set the stage for \"a spectacular series of misunderstandings and mistakes\" in the run-up to the publication of the magazine's wedding edition. The marquesa, famed for her contacts with celebrities, royalty and aristocracy around the world, is a regular contributor to Hello! but now finds herself one of the defendants in the case. In her original witness statement the marquesa said she had been involved in the deal to publish the Ramey photos but in a revised statement she says she was not. Hello! launched an attack on her as it defended itself against a claim of conspiracy to defraud the court by forcing the marquesa to sign a false witness statement. \"The statements made by the marquesa showed she is a volatile and impetuous woman,\" said Mr Price in a written submission to the court. He added: \"The marquesa, as must by now be apparent to all, is a law unto herself. \"She lives in Uruguay but she has an office in London. She appears to spend some time in Spain and her function is arranging features with celebrities, royalty and aristocracy around the world.\" \"Amazingly, she simply had the letter typed up and signed it and sent it off to counsel's chambers. Apparently she was worried about her dependants and her almost 200 dogs, if she did not submit to what she regarded as a demand that she supply false evidence. \"We submit that it is as clear as it reasonably could be that the submission of the marquesa's letter containing a falsehood was entirely innocent on the part of these defendants. \"It is explained by the fact that the evidence was obtained in a rush through intermediaries in two countries, who did not themselves know that anything in the marquesa's letter was wrong and did not expect the marquesa to say anything that was not true. \"The fault lies squarely at the marquesa's door as she herself openly admits.\" It was also revealed that a number of emails and invoices relevant to the case had been destroyed. The emails and invoices were deleted by Hello!'s staff as a matter of course, Mr Price told the court.",
  "title": "Hello!'s fixer is 'impetuous'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": ": Hello! today turned its fire on the Marquesa de Varela, the aristocratic fixer who clinched many of the royal exclusives that made the magazine's name in the UK. By Ciar Byrne",
  "id": "media/2003/feb/12/pressandpublishing.privacy1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}