{
  "content": "AOL is pulling the plug on social networking site Bebo. Back in the mists of 2008, this was the premier destination for global teens online; but with Facebook in the ascendant and Bebo visits plummeting, the company that paid $850m two years ago for one of the world's hottest tech start-ups has had enough. Unless a buyer is found, one slice of more than 20 million virtual lives is set to wink out of existence. It is a salutary lesson in online culture that is cast into relief by another, happier tale: YouTube's recent celebration of its fifth birthday. With close to 400 million viewers each month and a brand that is the one-word answer to most questions about where to watch something online, the company could hardly be doing better. YouTube has transformed more than online culture over the last half decade. Whether it is sporting triumphs, political embarrassments, film trailer mash-ups or mobile phone film-makers dancing to Rick Astley, all the world is one free upload away. And Google, YouTube's owners since 2006, is paying a pretty penny for our privilege, losing over $100m a year on the site. With more than a billion people across the world now online, free doesn't come cheap and Bebo's demise raises a tricky question: as the mobile revolution brings further swaths of humanity online, just who is big enough to keep up with the internet's appetite for socialising, sharing and vicarious living? Google for one and Facebook for two. But the smaller players have their work cut out. And if there's one thing that even the biggest player can't forget, it is that web loyalties come cheap. Bebo went from teen dream to has-been in less than 24 months. YouTube has the clips, but it doesn't own the people or the places they came from. If web 2.0 was all about giving people everything they wanted, any way they wanted it, then 3.0 is going to be a story about persuading them to give you something in return. It will be interesting to see who is still standing in another five years' time.",
  "title": "Online revolution: Bye bye, Bebo. But who will still be standing five years on? | Editorial",
  "lead": "Editorial: If web 2.0 was all about giving people everything they wanted, then 3.0 is going to be a story about persuading them to give you something in return",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/bebo",
    "technology/youtube",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2010/apr/11/online-bebo-social-networking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}