{
  "content": "Which do I leave first: Facebook or Twitter? I've been mulling that question for about a year now, but it always seemed theoretical. On top of that, it would have been a no-brainer. Twitter is essential for work, while Facebook \u2013 increasingly burdened by adverts, security issues and intellectual property disputes \u2013 is not. But I am now watching Twitter become morally depopulated and seriously considering how long I'll be on there. On the best estimate, Twitter's account numbers are still going strong, at 500 million plus. But some of the interesting people are going quiet. Their tweets are becoming more \"professional\" and less spontaneous. Many of the heavily followed celebs, journalists, businesspeople and politicians are starting to censor out the minutiae of their lives \u2013 the relationships, drinking bouts, the close-combat accounts of rioting that used to make Twitter so exhilarating \u2013 in favour of more serious content. Above all, some high-profile women are having to engage in a time-consuming defence of their online space against rape threats, death threats and the much more insidious problem of trolling. Twitter's estimated 500 million users are roughly one sixth of the world's adult population. While Facebook is bigger, with over a billion users, it is still really a \"network\", whereas Twitter has become an uncensored global news service the like of which we have never seen. A CNBC documentary claimed 70% of Twitter users check their timeline within three minutes of waking up. This, in my household, would be considered slow. Among journalists Twitter has replaced \"the wires\": all you have to do is follow someone you know is at the frontline of a particular story and you have not just eyewitness reports but usually corroboration, or adjustment, within seconds. So it will be a disaster if Twitter becomes dysfunctional. Yet it might. Since covering the rape and death threats against prominent British women on Twitter, I've been consistently trolled. Trolling involves complete strangers invading your timeline, flooding it with obscenities or \u2013 even worse \u2013 supercilious instructions to change your ideas and to \"respect free speech\". I've been treated to graphic descriptions of child rape, outrageous accusations designed to evoke disgust, plus numerous other commentaries on my appearance, professionalism, life \u2026 My response has been to go on a blocking spree so aggressive my thumbs are sore. And it has worked for a single reason: I am male. Twitter trolls \u2013 internet trolls in general \u2013 overwhelmingly target women. The rationale was spelled out in an online interview I did with one: \"Because women are easy. They get butthurt so easy and react. If they don't react nobody flames. It's that simple \u2026 People target feminazi's [sic] because they're incredibly hypocritical and full of bullshit.\" There is, in general, a rise in the organised trolling of political opponents on Twitter. Bahraini democracy activists have been on the receiving end since the uprising began. When I was covering the police crackdown on protests in Istanbul, I noticed a marked increase in abusive tweets mentioning me, from a small group of always anonymous, pro-government tweeters. But anti-female trolling has a different intent. The political griefer aims, at least, to convince a larger audience that certain reports are false, or someone's integrity is compromised. The woman-hating troll posts random, sick and offensive comments to an audience of just one, and that is you \u2013 \"bitch\". Twitter, which has revenues next year of $1bn (\u00a3639m) predicated on the sale of advertising, knows there is a chance that part of its user base could suddenly migrate, sick of the sexism and misuse. It happened to the virtual world Second Life. The co-founder of the popular social media site Reddit, Alexis Ohanian, in March publicly decried levels of sexism and abuse on the service where, among the under-30s, men outnumber women three to one. So sexist abuse is becoming a profit-and-loss issue for social media companies. The solution has to be radical and collective, for the stakes are high. Twitter is the first mass, global conversation, and if it becomes fatally polluted by frat-boy perversity and the verbal spew of sociopaths it will take some time to rebuild elsewhere. Policing it comprehensively is impossible. Twitter could help by giving law enforcement a clear answer as to what its policy is on the storage of deleted offensive tweets (they could not give me one at deadline time). But in the end, only the users can save it. It looks as if that will involve shared, user-created lists of accounts to block. DIY versions of these exist, but if Twitter were to bolt on the facility to its own user interface it would make things easier. If it did, relatively quickly \u2013 for this thing knows only exponential impact \u2013 Twitter would divide effectively into a community that tolerates abuse, and one that doesn't. All the \"free-speechers\", the self-identified deviants, the online Nazis, covert and overt, together with all the crazies could then inhabit their own hermetic social network, while the rest of us get on with using it how we used to. The downside would mean handing control over what you see to a collective third party; some people might get unjustly blocked. Levels of rage would rise among those who get their kicks from trolling. But the result would resemble the Last Judgment scene in the Sistine Chapel; a division of online humanity into the saved and damned \u2013 only crowdsourced, rather than as the result of divine intervention. And that would be apposite. For the sudden eruption of trolling, rape threats and 24-hour psychosis into my timeline has been a reminder that evil exists in the world. Evil may be a medieval theological concept, but when it invades your interface with the rest of humanity \u2013 and confronts your unwilling mind with imagery designed to provoke disgust, fear and self-loathing \u2013 it is all too modern. The first step to dispelling it is realising we do not have to act alone. \u2022 This article was modified on 20 August 2013. The original referred to Twitter users as \"one sixth of humanity\". This phrase has been clarified as \"roughly one sixth of the world's adult population\".",
  "title": "Which should I leave first, Twitter or Facebook? | Paul Mason",
  "lead": "Paul Mason: Twitter is the first global conversation \u2013 but it is becoming morally depopulated. We need radical, collective action to save it",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/blogging",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "lifeandstyle/women"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/aug/19/leave-twitter-facebook-paul-mason",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}