{
  "content": "How can housing providers demonstrate that they are delivering social value? We believe that running a social business provides at least part of the answer. Under the banner \"conntected housing\", Thames Valley Housing Association is working to understand how housing professionals can use social media more effectively to improve their efforts for tenants and customers. We have built an online portal to help people interested in the housing sector to discover and connect with each other on Twitter. The idea is to help cut through the noise. It identifies the interesting commentators, important subjects of discussion and the most frequently shared links on issues around housing. It's inspired by Tweetyhall, which does the same job for councillors, and powered by the technology behind Tweetminster. By aggregating and tracking a range of conversation streams on Twitter, people can see the contributions that housing associations and leading individuals are making to the housing conversation nationwide and in real time. This will help us in our collective attempt to accelerate housebuilding and tackle the housing crisis. Visceral Business has carried out research for us on how the social housing sector is adapting to social business and social media. The Connected Housing study is the largest study of its kind in the UK and is designed to help housing providers think about how and where they can improve business performance by using social media and networking technology to their advantage. We looked at all the housing associations in the UK with 10,000 homes or more, as well as those active on networks such as @GuardianHousing or the National Housing Federation's @natfednews in June and October this year. Monitoring more than 175 organisations, the study shows how housing associations are using digital and social media, where there has been growth in online activity, and which have been the most successful ouputs in the last six months. There are some significant findings. The housing associations using social networking technology to connect to audiences, and generating the greatest social following and support, are more likely to have developed a shared sense of purpose, created management innovations and designed integrated user experiences for their clients. Charitable organisations such as Centrepoint and St Mungo's have come out well overall in the study. However, this year, Bromford Group tops the list. It is identified as network of connected people using social media, not just as a tactical tool but as part of a very conscious business development and communications strategy, together with partners and residents. This represents a big shift in how business is done in housing, and the flow of data the sector can generate can lead to some exciting commercial opportunities to boost our housing infrastructure in this country and how it's managed. There are economic benefits in friction-free management online and creating strong stakeholder and investment networks. Even so, it looks as if some significant advantages of social business are going unnoticed in the housing sector. LinkedIn is very under-used as a platform among housing professionals. There isn't enough data to track the relative growth of housing association networks on the social media site, yet it's the most powerful business-to-business networking tool there is. That shows us just how much business development potential has yet to be untapped in social housing. What we're seeing in this first survey is how data and people are connecting via digital and social media, and the impact they are having on the form and function of social housing as a business. There are new models emerging that use social technology to redefine how housing services are delivered and how inclusive they are. Jayne Hilditch is corportate services director at Thames Valley Housing Association. Visit visceralbusiness.com to download the 2012 Connected Housing Study for free This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Join the housing network for comment, analysis and best practice direct to you",
  "title": "How social media can help you do your job in housing",
  "lead": "Bromford Group tops social communications survey because it behaves as a network of connected staff, residents and partners. Thames Valley's Jayne Hilditch explains",
  "tags": [
    "housing-network/housing-network",
    "housing-network/case-studies",
    "housing-network/practice",
    "housing-network/community-building",
    "housing-network/housing-careers",
    "housing-network/housing-management",
    "society/social-housing",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "housing-network/2012/dec/07/social-media-housing-network-staff-residents",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}