{
  "content": "\"Shall we have a meet-up in Halifax? Discuss blogging, science etc?\" types Jason. \"I'd like to find an easy method to study the interaction of a known peptide with other unknown peptides,\" taps Carol. Welcome to Facebook for professors, postdocs and PhDers in the sciences - otherwise known as Nature Network. The site, which started only in late February, in Boston, already has more than 10,000 users in the UK and hundreds of thousands across the world. Here scientists discuss how best to conduct experiments and whether to post their research findings online. Debates that might have had to wait until the annual microscopy conference in Auckland rage online from university laboratories in the UK. It is all for strictly professional use, of course. Except that, like Facebook, the scientists who use it are mainly in their late 20s and early 30s and may be hoping to discover a life-, as well as a research-, partner online. Social purpose \"Finding a partner can be quite a problem for scientists,\" says Matt Brown, editor of the London hub of Nature Network. \"They are usually only given tenure for a certain amount of time - three to five years - and then they might move to another part of the country, or the world.\" Brown says Nature Network is considering adding a dating element to the site, but that this is not a priority. \"It is designed more as a professional toolkit for scientists,\" he says. \"Somewhere between Facebook and LinkedIn [a professional networking site].\" Paul Wicks, a 25-year-old postdoctoral student at the Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, who has registered on the site, says: \"It's getting people at the same level from different institutions and different research fields to talk to one another about the thing they have in common: a love of science. \"A high hope would be that it will forge collaborations and interdisciplinary projects. A more realistic expectation is that it will form some of the glue between researchers, in terms of networking, career prospects and personal relationships.\" He adds that he has already found a \"geek-loving woman who can at least pretend to listen to me when I talk about 11C Flumazenil PET scanning in rare phenotypes of inherited diseases\". The dating element might sound like fun, but it has a serious side. Many postgraduates suffer from \"research isolation\", says Simon Felton, general secretary of the National Postgraduate Committee. This is partly because PhD students and postdocs work long hours and may travel a lot. Nature Network is not just for early career scientists, or even just scientists. Jenny Rohn, a 39-year-old senior research fellow in molecular cell biology at University College London, blogs on the site. Frank Norman, a 50-year-old librarian at the National Institute for Medical Research, regularly logs on. \"One of the nice things is the absence of markers to indicate status,\" Norman says. \"When you read a contribution, you don't know whether it is from a professor or a student, you just judge it by whether it makes sense.\" But do junior researchers and senior academics actually want to chat about lab work and their social lives together on Nature Network? \"Senior academics already have a networking tool: it's called getting paid to speak at conferences, while leaving their junior researchers in the lab,\" Wicks says. Dave White, in the department for continuing education at the University of Oxford, says: \"There is a junior and a senior common room in a university for a reason. I think services like Facebook provide a whole spectrum of collaborative spaces, from private groups to public ones. This is similar to the physical university in that both students and lecturers use the same building, but are allowed into different rooms.\" One lecturer, who does not want to be named, says the scientific community is concerned that Nature Network and other Facebook-style academic communications could be \"dangerous\" because comments are not peer-reviewed. But White says: \"In some senses, sites like Facebook allow a form of peer review to take place in a less formal context, in which the stakes are not so high. This should encourage fresh thinking and productive, impromptu collaborations.\" Dr Timo Hannay, director of web publishing at Nature Publishing Group, which runs Nature Network, says no one could mistake the site for a peer-reviewed journal; it is more \"cafe chat\". \"If a user made outlandish scientific claims that were potentially misleading, we would take them off,\" he says. Research potential He predicts that scientists who post comments, blogs and data from experiments on sites like Nature Network will eventually be allowed to count these as part of their research output. \"We are increasingly seeing the online world with its informal rapid communications complement the slower, more formal communications of academic journals,\" he says. \"There should be a way of measuring the impact of a scientist who posts comments on a site like Nature Network. These could be added to their publishing record for the research assessment exercise [in which every active researcher in every university in the UK is assessed by panels of other academics]. I think the funding bodies will see that these contributions add to the scientific knowledge base.\" Some discussions on Nature Network already revolve around how academics should cite blog entries. But what is out there for non-scientist academics? Lots of idea swapping goes on in Google and Yahoo groups. Many lecturers use MSN Messenger and Skype to communicate and Slideshare to exchange presentation slides. Academics increasingly sign on to Jiscmail, a list of email discussion groups on more than 6,000 academic subjects. Facebook is thought to be the most popular social networking site used by academics, because of its original focus around academic institutions. \"Traditionally scientists have met, collaborated and swapped ideas through conferences and the pages of scholarly journals,\" says Brown. \"These can be time consuming and rely to some extent on serendipity. Our vision for Nature Network is that every scientist in the world will have a personal profile on the site. Likeminded people and potential collaborators could then be easily found through a tagging system. Ideas can be discussed in the forums. Who knows, many years from now, traditional activities such as writing an academic paper could be peer-reviewed online.\" Some see it another way. \"If sites like these can increase awareness of research and provide easier ways to forge collaborative links, that is good,\" says Brown. \"If they provide more text that needs to be read, digested and responded to, that might not be so good.\"",
  "title": "Social networking for scientists",
  "lead": "A popular new site could see scientists exchanging ideas, posting data ... and even finding love online. Jessica Shepherd reports.",
  "tags": [
    "education/higher-education",
    "education/online-learning",
    "education/education",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "education/2007/jul/03/highereducation.elearning",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}