{
  "content": "Buckingham Palace has appointed a former senior army officer as director of security in the wake of an embarrassing expos\u00bf by a tabloid reporter who got a job as a royal servant, it was revealed yesterday. The announcement that Brigadier Jeffrey Cook had already taken up his post as the director for security liaison coincided with a governmentcommissioned report that recommended a royal security chief be employed. Brig Cook, who was previously in charge of training military recruits, will oversee an annual security plan and make sure that more stringent checks are carried out on job applicants and guests at all the royal residences. \"The plan will cover personnel security as well as protection and physical security, and will be subject to regular review,\" said the palace. He will report to the Queen's private secretary, Sir Robin Janvrin, and work with the police, the security services and the Home Office. The independent Security Commission, headed by the senior judge Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss, also recommended royal security measures should be reviewed internally every year and subjected to regular external testing. The report said there should be a more robust and coherent vetting system for all the royal households, ensuring that no permanent or temporary employee, or visitor, posed a risk. The commission that claimed journalists out to cause embarrassment were the most likely threat, calling the Mirror reporter Ryan Parry's infiltration a \"carefully planned deception\". But it admitted the weaknesses he exposed could also be exploited by terrorists. Parry got a job as a royal footman in the run-up to President George Bush's stay at Buckingham Palace. He took photographs of the bed that would be used by the president and his wife, Laura, and said he had enough access to the Queen to be able to poison her, had he wished to do so. MI5 and Scotland Yard confirmed that Parry had no terrorist links or criminal record before he was given the job. But they said checking job and education references was up to the palace. An internet search would have shown he was a journalist who had made an undercover investigation of security at Wimbledon the previous year. It was later revealed that a palace personnel officer phoned a pub in north Wales where the reporter had worked on a casual basis. When the bar staff could not remember him, the officer relied on the endorsement of a regular who happened to be drinking there at the time. Yet the Butler-Sloss commission denied there was anything wrong with the palace's basic recruitment procedures, although it admitted they were not robust enough to expose a fraudulent job application. Buckingham Palace welcomed the commission's findings, adding: \"The royal household accepts that there are lessons to be learnt from this case and has already tightened internal vetting procedures for all new recruits and has reviewed security measures more generally.\" Scotland Yard also welcomed the report, and said its royal and diplomatic protection unit would work closely with Brig Cook. Piers Morgan, the Mirror's editor, said his reporter had performed a valuable public service by exposing lax procedures, and claimed that the Queen could sleep easier knowing that security had been tightened. Brig Cook, who took up his post on Tuesday, is 49. He previously served with the Devon and Dorsets. Links cabinet-office.gov.uk/security Security commission report in full",
  "title": "Palace appoints director of security after tabloid expos\u00bf",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Buckingham Palace has appointed  a former senior army  officer as director of security in  the wake of an embarrassing  expos\u00bf by a tabloid reporter  who got a job as a royal servant. by Rosie Cowan",
  "id": "media/2004/may/07/pressandpublishing.themonarchy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}