{
  "content": "I first got to have a play with the Autographer, the wearable automatic camera in March 2013. It's a camera made by the Oxford Metrics Group (OMG), and I knew of their earlier 'sense cam' designed to assist Alzheimer sufferers, but on this occasion I was specifically there to see Autographer \u2013 a prototype destined to put this evolved medical technology in the hands of the general public. And last week, I finally got one to try out more intensively. For the record I didn't pay \u00a3400. I met the Autographer team in the OMG Life offices in London and was handed a small box containing the camera, a lanyard, a connecting cable and a small slip of paper tucked into the simple instructions. The slip highlighted that when wearing a small unobtrusive camera in public, I may want to take into consideration the privacy of others. Memoto vs Autographer I liked this small touch as ever since I attended the first Memoto meet-up in Stockholm last year, quite a few of the issues connected to wearable life-logging cameras have been at the forefront of my mind. Memoto is a similar life-logging device but as yet still not released; I spoke to them in December 2012. The Memoto is smaller and more obvious than the Autographer. It uses slightly different parameters \u2013 place, time, habits, and behaviour \u2013 to determine which images are selected from the two it takes every minute, and those are then manually to their cloud service. The Autographer, however, uses five sensors that measures motion, acceleration, changes in colour and light, temperature and direction. An algorithm then decides when best to take a photo. It has a silent 5 megapixel camera shooting through a glass hybrid 136\u00ba semi-fisheye lens, an OLED display and a really simple two button interface. The images are stored on your own devices with the option of sharing to Autographer's cloud services. Wanting to limit how much data I was initially recording, I set my camera to medium frequency (ie. to not take the photos too often) and turned GPS off. I then went to grab a bite to eat before taking the train back to Cambridgeshire: The first and so far only time I've been questioned about the device is was when I took it off to record myself eating. After I explained the staff seemed more amazed with the device than suspicious, and wanted to know why this geek was shooting time-lapse of his noodles disappearing. I think Hipsters have already paved the way with life-logging to Instagram. The specs This is so much easier though because you soon forget you are documenting the world around you. Most impressive is the ability to quickly and easily share images from the device to the phone via bluetooth, and from a laptop when attached via the software. This then enables you to create animated gifs or videos in just a few clicks. I haven't filmed more than a few hours at a time, but it's stated that the 8gb internal memory will hold 28,000 images; set at high frequency the camera would take that 12 days of continuous use to fill the space. The battery needs charging every couple of days, but you could still happily go away for a week without your computer and still have some space left on your return. The iOS and Desktop app work and look great, and an Android app is apparently on the way. I'd love to see a feature request button, because despite the simplicity I kept noting modifications to improve functionality and user experience. I also won't be the first reviewer to say the image quality from the camera is not great - though if I wanted to take a crisp high-def photo I'd use my Fujifilm X100s, so quality isn't the main point here. But if I needed a visual witness or wanted to document an event without needing to think about it, I'd use the Autographer. The image quality will improve, and has to to justify the \u00a3399 price tag. It's the behaviour this device encourages and the questions it raises that are most significant. Wearable tech and the mainstream Wearable tech is soon to go mainstream \u2013 and arguably already has, if you consider fitness apps and devices that plot and record. And then of course there is the personal data scraper called Google Glass, and we will be expected to embrace Glass with a huge chunk of cash despite knowing that it is a device we can't trust. Luckily battery technology does not yet allow Google Glass to be always on. Perpetually recording and sharing images as if providing public (and private) access to our eyes. That's only a matter of time. While some are keen on a convergence in our mobile tech, I can see great value in the Autographer being a dedicated device and part of that much-discussed future that includes the internet of things. Autographer: unexpectedly comfortable As a daily diarist I felt unexpectedly comfortable wearing the Autographer. I captured moments I rarely or maybe never photograph; a couple's embrace on a packed train, my hands on a steering wheel, interactions with the authorities, the smiles of serving staff, and my Grandmother's sadness. Occasionally I would remember the camera slung around my neck and find myself suddenly remembering to turn the lens dial to \"private\". I know I can happily use a public toilet and the camera angle not divulge anything other than the tiling. But I found myself suddenly and understandably concerned by the privacy of those around me, not least when I thought other people's kids were identifiable in a playground. What might happen when I walk through airport security and inadvertently break the law? What does all this mean for privacy in general? If this novelty doesn't wear off, I'll no doubt be approached and told that I'm invading someone's privacy. If anyone questions me, then I will of course turn off the device. That's fairly easy with Autographer because you rotate the lens to reveal a bright yellow lens cover. But I'll enjoy asking said person how they think an offline image captured on my wearable camera invades a privacy that is already leaking left, right and centre. With every online action, transaction and interaction, with every check in and status update, with every trip using an online satnav we erode more and more of this supposed privacy. With the latest Prism news it appears all we need to do in order to divulge a variety of personal information is touch a computer or use a phone. Personal, wearable CCTV? I will always ask before live streaming a room, before capturing a conversation in audio. But it's not common practice to ask people permission to photograph in a public space and I wonder how devices like the Autographer might effect the etiquette around such actions, and how that will evolve. We are only just beginning to wrestle with some very complex social and cultural issues around wearable technology, and just because we can automate our personal documentation of the world, it doesn't mean we should. Either we restrict the technology to fit our level of acceptability or, as tends to happen, our understanding of what is acceptable will shift. Many of us don't see CCTV any more; Autographer could be seen as a wearable, consumer version of that, though these new data streams are public and open as well as private and closed. Soon the Autographer will be as high a resolution as any camera, no doubt with facial recognition and optical character recognition. Eventually the curation software will be even more advanced, seamlessly archiving, collating and sharing in the background. Maybe in real time. Perhaps with audio. Autographer comes from interesting and meaningful stock that now gives us a fascinating life-logging tool. All its uses are yet to be explored, and the real potential will be determined by the users. Christian Payne is a photographer, filmmaker and technologist who experiments with new tools and social platforms. A version of this post first appeared on documentally.com",
  "title": "Autographer's automatic photography is seductive - but what about privacy?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/wearable-technology",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/photography"
  ],
  "lead": "The latest wearable camera gives a brief taste of the implications of always on-photography \u2013 and it's consumer CCTV. By Christian Payne",
  "id": "technology/2013/jul/31/autographer-review-wearable-camera-documentally",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}