{
  "content": "Ed Amory* enjoyed what was surely the last hurrah of a journalistic culture redolent of a 19th century gentleman's club. Since then he has witnessed the transformation wrought by the digital revolution. Despite the changes, however, he believes the gloom about newsprint is overblown. It remains a power in the land, he believes, and explains why in this essay. I am delighted to open my blog to him today and, yes, he is struck by the irony of this being published online... by Ed Amory When I became a journalist in 1997, I joined a profession rooted in the past. My first job was as assistant editor on the Spectator. I began my day meeting our editor, Frank Johnson, in the local coffee shop, at around 10.30am. He would be reading Le Monde and after a croissant we would make our way into work, where he would open the first bottle of champagne at around midday. I had a room the size of a broom cupboard on the top floor of the office in Doughty Street, just a few doors down from Charles Dickens's London home. My colleague Bruce Anderson still wrote all his columns, word perfect, by hand. There was a publisher, Kimberly Fortier, who attempted unsuccessfully, when not distracted by her private life, to drag us into the 20th century. But I had a seductive and civilised sense of stepping back in time. When, two years later, I moved to the Daily Mail, it was not so civilised, a ruthlessly professional institution that reinvented itself daily and was always commercial, but not exactly contemporary. Paul Dacre, the editor, reveled in the possibilities of print journalism, but opined at the Christmas party in the year that I joined: \"A lot of people say that the internet is the future for newspapers. Well, I say to that: bullshit.com\". Fast forward a few years, and by the time I left the Mail in 2011, its online version had already become the world's most successful newspaper website, pioneering a free advertising supported model; Rupert Murdoch had insisted on the Times going behind a subscription wall; the Guardian had committed to a digital-first future; newspapers around the globe had seen their financial models collapse overnight and the Huffington Post had been sold to AOL for $315m. Bullshit.com had triumphed. Since then the race for digital has intensified. The Daily Telegraph has replaced its editor with a chief content officer, all journalists on all national papers have been forced to embrace Twitter, Mail Online has 126m unique users worldwide, and persistent rumours suggest that the Guardian might drop its print edition altogether. Meanwhile, 242 local papers shut between 2005 and 2012, with one calculation suggesting that the regional press has lost 40% of its workforce in five years. Now national newspapers are following suit; the already slimmed-down Telegraph is making another 50 redundancies, and the Daily Express has cut 150 journalist jobs. Meanwhile, the BBC news website is used by 47% of the population every week, 24% say that their main method of accessing news is through their mobiles, and 16% share a news story on social media weekly. In the United States, the apparent dominance of new technology is even greater, accelerated because the classified advertising that supported their papers collapsed faster than the display advertising that underwrote the financial models of their UK counterparts. The Washington Post was bought by Amazon's Jeff Bezos. Mark Zuckerberg has promised that Facebook's news feed is going to become \"the perfect personalised newspaper for every person in the world\". The Huffington Post now has more readers than any US newspaper. Pierre Omidyar, one of the founders of eBay, has pledged $250m to a new online-only US journalism website. Public trust in print journalists is lower than that of Wikipedia In many parts of the developing world, digital has simply leapfrogged a print sector that had never really got started to become the engine of media growth. Protest movements like the Arab Spring saw the rise of citizen journalism often eclipsing the professionals. This technological tsunami has been mirrored by a collapse in trust in traditional media. In the UK, the former editor of the News of the World went to jail for presiding over a culture of phone hacking, and the Leveson inquiry that followed that hacking has precipitated an ongoing row over the regulation of UK newspapers, exposing the once mighty British press to increasing legal and political scrutiny. No wonder that YouGov polls show that trust in print journalists is low, ranging from 40% to 13% depending on the newspaper, but eclipsed by trust in the crowd-sourced Wikipedia at 64%. Print newspapers are also at a particular disadvantage in Britain because of the BBC. Funded by \u00a33.6bn of annual licence fee money, with an unassailable reputation for trust amongst the British public (its journalists are trusted by 61% of the population), its incredibly successful news website dominates the market with access to huge multi-media resources on a daily basis, making it more difficult for private sector competitors to make money in the digital space. So take all this together and it appears uncontestable the world has changed irrevocably and print newspapers have been eclipsed, in financial, political and social terms. Except that it hasn't and they haven't. Not yet, not really, not in Britain. Last year's Deloitte report on media consumption in the UK found that half of Britons still buy print newspapers and a further 10% read papers bought by others, compared to only 31% who read stories online on newspapers' websites daily. Meanwhile, 60% of us are regular readers of printed magazines, while only 40% read magazine content online. Revenue at Mail Online, the most successful newspaper website in the UK, was \u00a362m in 2014, compared to the print editions of the Mail and Mail on Sunday where total revenues were \u00a3536m. At The Economist magazine, where editor John Micklethwait has just stepped down, his decade-long tenure has seen print circulation rise from 1.1m to 1.6m, and operating profits from \u00a328m to \u00a359m. Of course, the long-term trend for print is irreversibly downwards, but in the UK at least it still dominates much of people's media consumption, and newspapers like the Mail and Telegraph are likely to see their profitability remain robust for many years to come. Just as significantly, print journalism in the UK has retained its unique campaigning role, its ability to change the agenda, to frighten elites, to wield influence. Despite the declining significance of editors at some titles, they are still controlled by individuals with an agenda, whereas much online journalism in the UK is essentially edited by an algorithm, as editors follow the readers rather than the other way round. Only an institution with the mindset of a print newspaper would have uncovered the child sex scandal in the Midlands, as the Times did, risked prosecution in order to expose MPs' expenses abuse, as the Telegraph did, labelled the alleged killers of Stephen Lawrence as murderers, as the Mail did, or revealed phone hacking at a rival paper, as the Guardian did. Almost every major piece of investigative journalism in Britain recently has been undertaken by a print newspaper. Even when the source of the information is leaks from new technology, as with Wikileaks and Edward Snowden, it took print newspapers agreeing to publish the material before it really had a significant impact. Many new media formats, like Twitter, are also dominated by traditional journalists working at print newspapers, because they break stories more often, and are trusted because of their umbrella brands. Political parties fear print media ahead of the election As we enter the general election campaign, the part of the media that political parties fear as opposed to plan how to exploit is the print media. It's the passion and beliefs and ruthless investigative journalism of papers like the Mail, the Times and the Guardian that will decide on which battlegrounds the campaign is fought, and therefore play a key role in deciding who will win. The same is true in the corporate world. Chief executives care infinitely more about a downpage story in a national print newspaper than 100m impressions on social media. Partly, it's because many of them are not yet digital natives, but there is also a sense that social media interactions, perhaps because they are so easy, are also cheap and not so very meaningful. Nor is it the case that interactive journalism, putting the readers or viewers at the heart of the story, has been invented for the digital age. Good newspapers have had a dialogue with their readers at the heart of everything they've done for 100 years. The letters page was at the heart of the success of the Mirror and the Express. Editors like Paul Dacre have built their success on reflecting the fears and hopes of their readers. Finally, the days of the licence fee at the BBC may be numbered. As different media formats converge, the existence of a publicly funded category killer is becoming harder to justify, certainly in the eyes of some politicians. Its news journalism is hampered by bureaucracy and timidity, hamstrung by fear of a political axe even before it has fallen. Formerly brilliant investigative programmes like Panorama are a shadow of their former selves, with big budgets but small ambition. So it's true that anyone can now become a citizen journalist, that companies can and do publish their own exciting content, that the economic model for print newspapers is in decline, that online in some form is the incontrovertible future, that social media allows faster and more effective conversations to take place with the readers, that the convergence of media formats is changing the environment forever. But it's also the case that print papers are still the dominant media power in the British landscape, and likely to remain in that position for some time to come. *Edward Amory is a director of freuds",
  "title": "Why print newspapers remain the dominant media power in Britain",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/the-spectator",
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/pauldacre",
    "media/rupert-murdoch",
    "media/dailytelegraph",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/magazines",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/dailyexpress",
    "media/bbc",
    "media/washington-post",
    "technology/jeff-bezos",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/mark-zuckerberg",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/mail-online",
    "media/mailonsunday",
    "media/the-economist",
    "media/thetimes",
    "media/theguardian",
    "us-news/edward-snowden",
    "media/wikileaks",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Guest blogger Ed Amory sees a long future for ink-on-paper despite online's hold",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2015/feb/16/why-print-newspapers-remain-the-dominant-media-power-in-britain",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}