{
  "content": "The government's data protection watchdog yesterday criticised 11 of Britain's banks and building societies for failing to protect personal customer information from fraudsters. The information commissioner said that a series of investigations by its staff into alleged breaches of security found that banks dumped personal information in bins and waste recycling units with little or no security when ID theft was rife. Halifax Bank of Scotland, Alliance &amp; Leicester, Royal Bank of Scotland, NatWest and Barclays were joined on the list of shame by Clydesdale Bank, the Cooperative Bank, HFC Bank, United National Bank, Nationwide building society and Scarborough Building Society. The commissioner also said the Post Office and the Immigration Advisory Service had failed to keep customer information safe when they disposed of personal records. Each of the banks and building societies has been forced to sign a formal undertaking that they will comply with the Data Protection Act in future or risk prosecution and heavy fines. Dave Smith, deputy commissioner, said: \"It is unacceptable for banks and other organisations to carelessly discard their customers' information. It is vital that they take security seriously. If they not only risk further action from the commissioner, but also risk losing the confidence of their customers.\" The action follows a series of high-profile blunders by banks and building societies, most notably the Nationwide, the UK's largest building society, which was fined nearly \u00a31m by the FSA. The chief City regulator made an example of the Nationwide after the theft of an employee's laptop unearthed security flaws which it said could have put its 11 million customers at risk. A spokesman for the British Bankers' Association said the banks had taken steps to ensure that any security weaknesses have been addressed. The information commissioner is known to have become frustrated with the often lackadaisical attitude of companies to the disposal of personal information. Lord Falconer, the constitutional affairs minister, said that \"when parliamentary time allows\", penalties will be increased from fines to a two-year jail sentence.",
  "title": "Banks under fire for failing to protect customers from fraud",
  "lead": "The government's data protection watchdog yesterday criticised 11 of Britain's banks and building societies for failing to protect personal customer information from fraudsters.",
  "tags": [
    "money/money",
    "business/business",
    "money/scamsandfraud",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "money/2007/mar/14/business.scamsandfraud1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}