{
  "content": "The buzz around HTML5 and mobile web games certainly didn't start with Facebook and Zynga's press events this week, but the two companies have added fuel to the fire around browser-based mobile gaming. Facebook's decision to extend its web applications platform to smartphones and tablets has been rumoured for months, although speculation that it would be unveiled as part of Apple's \"Let's Talk iPhone\" event on 4 October proved to be wide of the mark. The social network waited nearly a week to take the wrappers off its plans, which involve taking viral features such as bookmarks, requests and newsfeed links to its mobile apps and website. Facebook's 350 million mobile users \u2013 half on apps and half on the mobile site \u2013 will now be able to use social games and other applications from within Facebook, just as they do on its website. The company is clearly keen for developers to capitalise on this by launching versions of their games and applications that support both forms of its mobile presence. \"Social apps are all about interacting with your friends so the best social apps will be on both native iOS and web apps, and we encourage you to think about how to reach the total audience of Facebook users by building both,\" wrote Facebook's Luke Shepard in an introductory blog post. Zynga was one of the first companies to get access to the new platform, and at an event the day after Facebook's announcement, unveiled its first three HTML5 games to take advantage: Words With Friends, Zynga Poker and FarmVille Express. \"We are excited that Facebook will bring all the social channels on the Web to mobile,\" Zynga's chief mobile officer David Ko tells The Guardian. \"Discoverability of apps is one of the biggest hurdles on mobile today. Now, with the ability to reach millions of mobile Facebook users through these social channels, social gaming on mobile will only grow.\" That said, Zynga isn't placing all its mobile bets on Facebook's platform, though, with two additional native games also announced: Mafia Wars Shakedown and Dream Zoo. Meanwhile, the company is also reigniting its direct-to-consumer ambitions with something called Zynga Direct. CEO Mark Pincus described it as \"a platform for a direct relationship with consumers, whether on the web or on mobile, to give you a whole sandbox and create socialness about the games and not just within the games\". All of this is interesting and exciting for the wider social mobile games industry. But what also stands out is the way companies like Facebook, Zynga and Apple are interacting as they look to stake out their turf in this area. So, Facebook is having to play nice with Apple: its mobile users will be taken to native iOS applications where they exist when they tap on links in its mobile apps and sites. Check the convolutions around the Facebook Credits currency system too, as Shepard put it: \"The same policies for Apps on Facebook apply to mobile web apps, including the requirement to use Facebook Credits as their exclusive payment mechanism. Facebook Credits are not allowed in iOS apps or mobile web apps that are running within a Facebook iOS app.\" Meanwhile, Zynga is building out its own direct-to-consumer offering while ensuring that it does not alienate Facebook, or indeed Apple. Mobile gaming in general can feel like a bunch of big beasts tiptoeing around one another (and occasionally lashing out), but that's particularly the case for the nascent browser-based social mobile games market.",
  "title": "Facebook and Zynga fuel the HTML5 games bandwagon",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/apps",
    "technology/games",
    "technology/mobile",
    "technology/zynga",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/html5",
    "technology/smartphones",
    "technology/tablet-computer",
    "media/social-media",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "lead": "Stuart Dredge: Cross-platform social gaming gets new shot in the arm, but will those platforms play nice with one another?",
  "id": "technology/appsblog/2011/oct/12/apps-games",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}