{
  "content": "At least the Americans try to explain themselves. Challenged about each revelation of mass surveillance, the National Security Agency makes a fist of answering its critics. When it comes to listening to Angela Merkel's phone, get over it: spies spy. The Germans and French do it on their allies as much as we do it to them. When it comes to breaking into Google and Yahoo's global data centres (interest declared: I advise Google on freedom of expression issues), perish the thought that Americans might be spied on. That is the gist of the case for the defence from the NSA's director, Keith Alexander, who is feeling the heat as members of Congress and the media finally wake up to the scale of American snooping. One can believe Alexander or disbelieve him. One can take President Obama at his word when he pledges to review the system, or one can be sceptical. But at least the debate is being had in the US, as it is in many countries around the world. In Germany, the government responded furiously to revelations \u2013 which the White House conspicuously failed to deny \u2013 that every word the chancellor has said on her mobile phone has gone straight back to Washington DC. In Paris and Madrid, US ambassadors were summoned to explain why tens of millions of communications by French and Spanish citizens are routinely stored by American spies each month. The Brazilians were first off the blocks when their president, Dilma Rousseff, cancelled a visit to Washington in protest at the interception of her communications with the state oil conglomerate Petrobras. (What that has to do with the fight against global terrorism has yet to be explained). Over here, in Britain? Nothing but obsequiousness, ignorance and threats. No comment is GCHQ's response to each news story. Instead of lining up with Merkel and Fran\u00e7ois Hollande at the recent EU summit, David Cameron was keen to stress that because we Brits are so slavishly loyal to the Americans, they wouldn't do that to us. Whether or not his confidence is justified is a matter of conjecture. The prime minister's credulous approach and Ed Miliband's refusal to break ranks speak volumes for the state of the UK debate. As I wrote several weeks ago, after a speech laden with threats from the head of MI5, Andrew Parker, the discussion about security, civil liberties and the right to know has been characterised by torpor. From the moment the Guardian broke the first stories about the NSA's Prism and GCHQ's Tempora programmes, parliament's lack of detailed understanding of the internet has been cruelly exposed. A small number of MPs, led by Conservatives Dominic Raab and David Davis and the Lib Dem Julian Huppert, are knowledgeable about issues of privacy and data retention. But for the most part MPs are happy to be fobbed off with platitudes such as \"if you've done nothing wrong, you've got nothing to hide\". Thursday's debate, in the mini-me chamber of Westminster Hall, continued this sad trend, with the Tory Julian Smith accusing the Guardian of being \"potentially guilty of treasonable behaviour\". Parliament's intelligence and security committee will next week hear evidence in open session from the heads of the UK's three intelligence services. This will, notionally, break new ground, but prepare to be underwhelmed. They will assert that they would dearly love to clarify any misperceptions but are unable to give any information, as to do so would give succour to our enemies. So it will go on. Britain, thanks to a national conversation about espionage that has the intellectual sophistication of a James Bond movie, is becoming ever more isolated. In 2014, with the Brazilians at the helm, serious moves will be made to prise jurisdiction over the internet away from the US. This could be beneficial or detrimental. It could lead to a further assertion of governmental authority in authoritarian states. The Chinese call it cyber autonomy. Or it could lead to more open structures, with more input from internet users, civil society and parliaments. Prism has shocked most of the world out of its complacency about who knows what and who is doing what online. Britain might wish to engage in it. Twitter: @johnkampfner",
  "title": "The UK debate about NSA spying is as nuanced as a James Bond film | John Kampfner",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "us-news/nsa",
    "us-news/us-national-security",
    "us-news/the-nsa-files",
    "uk/gchq",
    "uk/uksecurity",
    "politics/davidcameron",
    "politics/politics",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "John Kampfner: The NSA is feeling the heat from Congress. US ambassadors are being summoned. In Britain, the debate is barely being had",
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/oct/31/spying-shock-world-britain-refusing-engage",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}