{
  "content": "Independent businesses made \u00a3504m in sales during this year's Small Business Saturday \u2013 up \u00a336m on last year, according to research commissioned by American Express. Across the UK, 16.5 million people chose to shop at a local, independently-owned business on Saturday. The annual campaign, which originated in the US and was first held in the UK last year, encourages consumers to support small shops and businesses in their community. Those visiting independent shops or small businesses spent \u00a330.56 per person and a third of shoppers said they had spent at least 25% more than they would on a typical Saturday. Small Business Saturday was launched in the US five years ago by American Express, who are supporters of the event in the UK. The campaign appears to be gathering momentum, with 53,000 mentions on Twitter and awareness among the general public at 64%, according to the research. Organisers aimed to increase local council involvement this year and they succeeded, with 55% of all UK local authorities supporting the campaign - a 15% growth on last year. Sixty towns and cities provided free parking on the day. Michelle Ovens, Small Business Saturday's national campaign director, said awareness of the initiative in the UK is growing. \"We saw a massive pick up from last year. Awareness is definitely up - it's tapped into a trend. People want to support their local businesses.\" Prior to the autumn statement last week, David Cameron called Small Business Saturday an \"excellent event where we can boost small businesses\". A Christmas Fair was held in Downing Street on the Friday before (5 December), which was attended by nearly 100 small businesses. Chancellor George Osborne and businesswoman Karren Brady were at the fair, where 12 small businesses presented their products and services. Take a look at our full Small Business Saturday gallery. A community effort York was a poster town for community involvement and for year-on-year growth in interest towards Small Business Saturday. According to Ovens, the city's small business Christmas fair saw visitors grow from 1600 in 2013 to 16,000 this year. Meanwhile, members of the Small Biz 100 (one hundred businesses who were selected and promoted by Small Business Saturday organisers in the run-up to the event) saw a positive influence on their companies' results. Becky Sebright-King, owner of Lady Bakewell-Park \u2013 a bakery that sells online and caters for events \u2013 enjoyed success on the day. \"Our personalised biscuits for Christmas have been a real hit, as well as our Christmas cake and petits fours mince pies,\" says Sebright-King. She says Small Business Saturday \"highlighted the need for small businesses in a day and age where bigger businesses normally win out\". \"The community like to know where their products are sourced and who is behind the goods. It creates a familiarity, a relationship and an ongoing experience for the customer.\" Tom Malcolm Green, director of Wick &amp; Tallow, a luxury candle manufacturer and online shop, hosted a Christmas fair at the business's studio in Fulham, inviting other local businesses involved. \"This obviously had the advantage of being able to cross expose each other to our contacts and create more of a buzz around the event than we might have managed on our own,\" he said. He says being part of the Small Biz 100 was a big boost for Wick &amp; Tallow and has helped it to attract media attention. \"Our average unique hits a day are around 50 and these increased to over 2,250 on Saturday, and have been at around 200 a day since. Average online orders at this time of year are six a day, which tripled on Saturday to 18.\" Organised events, like Wick &amp; Tallow's fair were the biggest driver in Ovens's view: \"Different businesses grouped together, that's what made this year - we saw more collaboration.\" Ovens said Edinburgh, Cornwall and Yorkshire were particular hotspots for Small Business Saturday activity. Celebrities backing small businesses The campaign was widely promoted via social media. Celebrities and well-known names in the business world voiced their support on Twitter. Mary Portas, Dermot O'Leary, former Dragons' Den judges Theo Paphitis and Deborah Meaden mentioned the #SmallBizSatUK hashtag. Twitter recorded 53,000 #SmallBizSatUK mentions. with the hashtag trending in 14 locations in the UK. Barry Collins, director of SMB (small business marketing), EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) for Twitter, said: \"There's been a lot more engagement and excitement around Small Business Saturday this year.\" Twitter saw the biggest spike in engagement around the day between 9am and 10am. Collins explained that this was when small businesses tweeted about their offers and plans for the day and consumers were checking out their timeline. Ovens says: \"Small Business Saturday this year has been a fantastic demonstration of collaboration in communities across the UK, with local authorities, small business, trade organisations, big business and consumers really pulling together.\" Read more stories like this: Small Business Saturday - the independent retailers' Black Friday? Small businesses are the backbone of our communities Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.",
  "title": "Sales increase by \u00a336m for second Small Business Saturday",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "small-business-network/supporting-business-growth",
    "small-business-network/small-business-network",
    "business/small-business",
    "technology/twitter",
    "business/business",
    "business/retail"
  ],
  "lead": "Awareness of the event has grown in its second year with 16.5 million people shopping at a independent business and the day trending on Twitter",
  "id": "small-business-network/2014/dec/11/sales-increase-36m-small-business-saturday",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}