{
  "content": "Last week, the city where I live was overrun by the British games industry. To be fair, the per capita population of Brighton is disproportionately digital; Black Rock Studio, Zo\u00eb Mode, Relentless, Littleloud and many other top-quality development studios are located there, plus several games news sources have set up shop within spitting distance of the pier. But when the Develop Conference plops itself into the city centre in the middle of July, things get a bit silly. Yet this year there were definitely fewer geeks in the bars and clubs of West Street talking about their latest AAA game projects; it seems the crunch is finally taking its toll. Now, full disclosure: despite my ridiculously close proximity to the conference happenings, I was strapped to my computer working on the last 385 years of my thesis. My gamesblog colleagues Keith Stuart and Greg Howson took the event and covered it like there was a massive going-out-of-business event at a duvet factory. It's all over theguardian.com and you can hear Keith's barrage of interviews with an impressive number of the top British developers on Tech Weekly, the Guardian's technology podcast. However, what emerged is indeed the story that the industry has been too afraid to publish: the recession looms large, even in the entertainment sector. In the week of the conference and in the days since the closing night party, several British studios have announced substantial layoffs, no doubt inspiring an innovation-busting stay-put mentality in the minds of the workers who remain in employment. The keywords from this year's conference were Facebook and iPhone \u2013 not Sony, not Microsoft, not even mainstream casual industry leader Nintendo. The companies that are riding the economic undertow on sturdy surfboards are the ones that have put aside their anti-web prejudices and are embarking on the calmer seas of the casual market. They're making waves on social networking platforms. And although they may not be rolling in dough, they're a lot less prone to the peaks and troughs of the market. It's time for the stick-in-the-mud studios that have been strapping themselves to the flotsam of the AAA sinking ship to re-think their survival plans. Even the big three publishers have substantially invested in portfolios that are aimed at invigorating their business models: party games, web connectivity and retro releases for knock-down prices are the treasure troves now, not the epic, graphic-laden behemoths that demand wallet-busting trips to the pay point. Brighton has a rich history of alternative thinking. It seems only appropriate that the games industry finally started thinking outside the Xbox when it spent a dirty week by the seaside.",
  "title": "Game theory: British games studios must look to the web to survive the recession",
  "lead": "Aleks Krotoski: Facebook and iPhone were the talk of the Develop Conference \u2013 proof games studios must work with the web if they are going to survive the recession",
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/iphone",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "uk/brighton"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/gamesblog/2009/jul/22/videogames-social-networking-recession",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}