{
  "content": "It was when a dog in a hat, accompanied by a woman carrying a box of ducklings, arrived at the wedding that the woman from OK! thought the game was up. The celebrities at the altar were hardly stellar - the soap actor Tina Hobley was marrying a little-known designer - but OK! had bought the rights to the event and was worried that interlopers could take pictures and ruin the deal. \"If this woman had got through security, the fear was that lots of other people might have,\" said Clair Woodward, a former deputy editor of OK! Woodward can now laugh about the curious incident of the dog in the hat, but at the time she felt her career might end. \"It was a bloody nightmare,\" she told the Guardian yesterday. Over the past two decades the celebrity wedding has become a staple of the glossy magazines. Staff from OK! and Hello! spend hours finding out who's marrying whom so they can be first through the door with their pitch. Executives are prepared to shell out vast sums of money for an exclusive deal, knowing that a wedding portrait of even a relatively minor star can send circulation soaring. And they plan the wedding days they have bought with military precision to try to make sure the exclu sive \"product\" is not ruined by sneak photography. Editors at Hello! look back fondly to the late 80s, when it was the only beast of its kind and the famous, or some of them at least, were prepared to sell the rights to their nuptials for modest sums. \"A few even used to let us do it for free,\" said the present editor-at-large, Susan Rozsnyai. That changed when Richard Desmond launched OK! Branching out, he bought the weddings Hello! might have thought itself too posh for - those of the boyband, the soap stars, the participants of Celebrity Love Island. The ultimate celebrity wedding was, of course, that of David and Victoria Beckham in 1999, for which OK! paid \u00a31m, helping push its circulation past the 600,000-a-week mark. That deal was not just about money; Mr Desmond courted the Beckhams assiduously and gave them control over the photographs (they apparently spent their wedding night choosing the images). Then even the D-listers began asking for, and getting, up to \u00a340,000, with the cost of the wedding sometimes thrown in. Lately the market has declined a little. Mr Desmond claims it was Victoria Beckham's demand for \u00a31m to cover a party for the England football team that prompted him to call something of a ceasefire with Hello! three years ago. The rivals agreed to do joint photoshoots on occasion. But there is still is big money around when the right couple gets spliced. OK! is reportedly paying \u00a31.75m for the wedding of Jordan and Peter Andre. A Wayne Rooney or Liz Hurley marrying any time soon (especially if Hugh Grant is on the guest list for the latter) will also attract large payouts. The public appetite for a wedding is unsated. Hello! believes a good one will add 20% to sales - which doubled when it carried images of Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles getting hitched. \"I suppose the bottom line,\" said Woodward, \"is that everyone likes a good wedding.\"",
  "title": "Even C-list stars can profit from magazines",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/consumer-magazines",
    "media/magazines",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "It was when a dog in a hat, accompanied by a woman carrying a box of ducklings, arrived at the wedding that the woman from OK! thought the game was up. ",
  "id": "media/2005/may/19/pressandpublishing.privacy2",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}