{
  "content": "A year ago I walked into my kitchen to find half a dozen teenagers there, each one engrossed with their own private screen in silence. I realised it had been months since I'd seen a teenager without a computer or smartphone in their hand. I decided there and then to make a film on the subject, the beginning of a year-long journey that took me from the fibre-optic cables in the sewers of London to spending endless, unedifying hours in bedrooms of teenage boys as they watched porn. Nearly every girl I met talked of the social pressure: the demand to be constantly in touch; the problems of \"unfriending\"; being in the gaze of people they have barely met; the anxieties about their image; and the horror of looking in while being left out \u2013 for them much more pressing than what one girl dubbed \"the parental obsession with groomers and porn\". What surprised me was the anger of many teenagers who, in turn, felt abandoned by parents whose own eyes were fixed on electronic devices. More shocking still was the sight of an entire industry systematically pulling young people into their glittering and beguiling world \u2013 with little care for the collateral damage. Luis Von Ahn, inventor of Captcha and reCaptcha (the brilliant if irritating security system where you type letters into a box to prove you are human), says \"anyone doing anything on the web professionally is constantly refining their site to keep the user using\". He readily admits that the industry knowingly designs to addict, but he puts his faith in the fact that the people at the heart of the industry are good people with good values. I am not so sure. The devices that our kids use are shipped from the factory with every possible audio, visual or vibration alert switched on. Each new app, website, tweet and message adds another layer of intrusion \u2013 each intrusion is cynically designed to get a response, and each response creates an appetite for another intrusion. Asking a young person to put down their Xbox, shut their computer or stop looking at their smartphone is like asking an alcoholic to put down their drink. Behind the nursery colours and baby names that epitomise the corporate branding of the internet is a culture that is relentlessly commercial. Each interaction means data \u2013 data that is worth a fortune. Our children, manipulated to become exemplary consumers, increasingly admit they do not feel \"in control\" of their own internet use. Everything a teenager does, says or looks at, however transitory, contributes to an aggregated virtual self that might one day have consequences for its real-life counterpart. How many of us would keep all our relationships and reputations intact if every transgression, mistake or youthful folly was held in public view? How many of us would want this to be aggregated and sold many times over to all the commercial interests we might do business with for our entire lifetime? As teenagers increasingly learn about sex from pornography, their sexual norms change. I sat with a group of boys who, when asked about where they imagined ejaculating, took more than 20 minutes and considerable prompting to come up with a word that indicated vagina. \"In the face\", \"over the tits\", \"up the arse\" and \"blow job\" came to their minds immediately \u2013 they were all 15. One young woman had only ever been \"in love\" online, but had worked as an escort from the age of 17. She was one of many who confided that, though they could perform a whole series of sexual acts confidently, they felt inhibited about making themselves vulnerable emotionally. \"Porn is great and it's free but it ruins love for us all,\" said one 15-year-old boy ruefully. I am still cautiously hopeful about the potential of the internet. But it seems that the greatest revolution in communication has been hijacked by commercial values. The companies that make up the net are capitalised in billions but, unlike every other arena where the price of trading includes the cost of making sure what you deliver is safe for the consumer, we have allowed them to be exempt. Why should our intercepted phone calls, the purchases of a nation, the lust of a generation, the identity of bullies and the secrets of us all be subject to free market and free speech even as we see the demonstrable harm and the distortion of our collective norms? What appeared to offer an infinite opportunity to participate is enslaving many of us to just one more click. It is owned by a very few people whom we have given unfettered, unregulated access to the most intimate parts of our young before they are fully formed \u2013 fetishising objects over experience, contact over communication, image over intimacy, the quick over the thoughtful. Becoming an adult human requires imitation and role models, it takes patience and practice, and it needs both solitude and community. Instead, many of our children have smartphones in the hands that we should be holding.",
  "title": "We have abandoned our children to the internet | Beeban Kidron",
  "lead": "Beeban Kidron: Young people are addicted to a virtual world that is designed to keep them hooked with little care for collateral damage",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "society/youngpeople",
    "film/beeban-kidron",
    "film/film",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/children",
    "society/society",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "lifeandstyle/parents-and-parenting"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/sep/13/abandoned-children-internet-addicted-virtual-damage",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}