{
  "content": "People should not be afraid of their government, governments should be afraid of their people. (Alan Moore, V for Vendetta) What lessons can we learn from the rise and fall of the latest attempt to exempt MPs' expenses from the Freedom of Information Act? The first is that, if enough people feel strongly enough about an issue and lean on their MPs accordingly, democracy works. There will be resistance, Gandhi's famous formulation of \"Ignore, laugh, fight, win\" still holds true \u2013 but ultimately if enough people exert enough pressure they can get whatever they want. Stick that in your apathetic pipe and smoke it. The biggest qualifier to that is that coordinating enough people and motivating them to take enough action is tricky (in the case of this campaign we had it easy; on most issues there is far less consensus). But this brings us to the second lesson: the information revolution has fundamentally changed the rules of the game. Just 10 years ago, a campaign like this would have taken weeks, not hours, to get off the ground (and subsequently would have lost before it began). This was a campaign fuelled almost entirely by email, blogs, Facebook and Twitter. Jo Swinson MP, who tabled the early day motion we used as the basis of Unlock Democracy's campaigning, press launched the motion from her constituency in Scotland and spent the rest of the week coordinating her efforts with her smartphone in Cameroon. Sneaking the publication of the freedom of information (parliament) order last Thursday when the media was mainly concerned with the Heathrow expansion seemed to be a ploy; if it was it was based on outmoded assumptions about how quickly organisations would be able to mobilise a response. But the third lesson to be learned is one that many of us realised long ago: a significant swath of the establishment fears and distrusts the public, treating us as compliant subjects rather than citizens. We are regarded as a problem to be controlled and managed and our fundamental rights and freedoms are paid lip service but considered ultimately to be an inconvenience. The impulse which has lead us to a national identity database, identity cards, the DNA database, photographers being detained for taking pictures in the street, parents being spied on to check if they live in the appropriate school catchment area, the drive to marginalise trial by duty and hold inquests in secret and suspending/habeas corpus, is the same impulse that assumes the public is neither entitled nor interested in knowing how MPs spend their expenses. That the government made their move on the week Henry Porter launched the Convention on Modern Liberty only highlights its timeliness. We need nothing less than a paradigm shift in how both politicians and the people see their relationship with each other. It isn't enough for the public to continue passively accepting what their governments have to offer and it is unacceptable for politicians to encourage this notion. In place of apathy and cynicism we need pushiness and scepticism. This week's victory has given us a small glimpse of what is possible. Savour the moment, but think about the future. The Guardian is the media partner for The Convention on Modern Liberty, taking place on Saturday 28 February 2009, which will debate these and other issues. You can buy tickets here Unlockdemocracy.org.uk",
  "title": "Peter Facey: The climbdown on MPs' expenses is a victory for democracy",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "uk/britishidentity",
    "world/surveillance",
    "politics/labour",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "politics/idcards",
    "politics/mps-expenses"
  ],
  "lead": "Peter Facey: The climbdown on MPs' expenses is a clear sign that we will no longer passively accept government controls on our liberty",
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/jan/22/civil-liberties-data-protection",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}