{
  "content": "We have yet to light the Bonfire Night fireworks, but Christmas will begin with a bang over the coming fortnight as major retailers kick off their festive advertising campaigns. Retailers will spend about \u00a3390m on advertising over the last three months of 2013, according to market analyst Nielsen. That is about the same as in 2012, but this year much more will be lavished on TV campaigns and online, where more and more shoppers search for and buy their presents. Some of the most memorable adverts of the past 30 years have been store chains' Christmas commercials. The first glitzy celebrity-laden campaign was 1981's The Wonder of Woolies, which featured stars of the day including The Goodies and Anita Harris. More recently, Antonio Banderas and Take That have turned out for tearjerkers from Marks &amp; Spencer and John Lewis. Littlewoods, the Co-op and Waitrose have launched their campaigns in the last few days, and John Lewis, Marks &amp; Spencer and Debenhams will all be screening their first Christmas adverts this week. John Lewis, whose much-anticipated campaign is being kept tightly under wraps, is thought to use an animated film to a soundtrack of Lily Allen singing the Keane song Somewhere Only We Know, although other tracks may still be under consideration. While M&amp;S has opted for orchestral Christmassy music, John Lewis's chosen soundtrack is once again likely to cause a stir. Last year, it used Gabrielle Aplin's cover of Frankie Goes to Hollywood's Power of Love, which became a No 1 single as a result of the advert, which featured two snowmen. Next stands out from other big retailers by eschewing Christmas ads and focusing spending on promotion for its new year sale, which starts in the early hours of Boxing Day. Debenhams, which returned to TV in 2012 after six years, is back again with a multimillion-pound campaign that focuses on its Designers at Debenhams range. Major grocers are so far staying tight-lipped on their plans but are also expected to launch a Christmas push. German discount chain Lidl aired its first ever UK small-screen advert on Thursday, targeting middle-class shoppers in a campaign voiced by Harry Enfield to a One Direction soundtrack. Iceland is also spending more on TV this year: its Christmas ad \u2013 featuring a blossoming romance between existing characters Ben, an Iceland delivery driver, and Gemma, to a soundtrack of Michael Bubl\u00e9 singing Jingle Bells \u2013 will launch. While Waitrose has opted to continue its charitable theme, Tesco and Morrisons are expected to pull the stops out after a muted response to their 2012 campaigns, which were based on helping families save money. Morrisons' main ads will star TV presenters Ant and Dec, with shorter spots showing the supermarket's in-house chefs making Christmas food. The grocers are expected to spend about 9% more on television than last year, with an expensive scramble for the prized slots around the X Factor final on ITV in the second weekend in December. Downton Abbey is another sought-after spot. Some stores are understood to have booked entire commercial breaks for epic three-minute ads. Martin Harrison, planning director at digital agency Huge, says: \"I expect to see a big TV battle this year. Last year the big supermarkets got a battering because they reduced spend as [smaller] rivals increased theirs. So Aldi got a larger share of voice than they usually have.\" Marks &amp; Spencer's \"Believe in Magic &amp; Sparkle\" ad has set the tone with its glossy Alice in Wonderland theme. M&amp;S creative director Steve Sharp, who has been responsible for the chain's adverts for more than seven years, says creating a big splash has become more important. \"This year people will be looking at ads online before they go to the television. You have to make an ad interesting enough so people will look for it, and that's a big shift,\" he said. Total spending on online advertising by all industries is expected to rise by 11% in the last quarter of this year compared with the same period in 2012 \u2013 nearly three times the rate of growth in TV spend, according to the Advertising Association. Consumer involvement via social media is an increasingly important part of all advertising campaigns. M&amp;S, which launched its campaign online, is allowing shoppers to vote via Twitter and Facebook on a name for the highland terrier which features in its campaign. The winning choice will appear on the dog's collar in December. The Co-op's theme is \"Relax, Christmas is just round the corner\", and it is asking on Facebook and Twitter for secrets, tricks and tips for a relaxing Christmas. Paul Bainsfair, director general of the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising, said the change in spend reflects shopper behaviour. \"Look at people watching TV in an ordinary home: most have access to mobile phones or tablets, which they interact with at the same time as watching a show,\" he said. That connection, he added, was driving advertisers to integrate their campaigns. Christmas shoppers also seem to be starting their research sooner. Hedley Aylott of digital agency Summit said Google searches had begun three to four weeks earlier than last year, and retailers were considering bringing forward their campaign plans as a result. And thanks to social media, he said, such changes are far easier to make. He said: \"It's possible now to bring promotions forward; in the past you had to book space well in advance.\"",
  "title": "TV Christmas adverts battle moves online as shops target social media",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/advertising",
    "lifeandstyle/christmas",
    "business/retail",
    "business/marksspencer",
    "business/johnlewis",
    "business/debenhams",
    "business/co-operative-group",
    "business/supermarkets",
    "business/waitrose",
    "media/television",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/iceland-foods"
  ],
  "lead": "By the end of this week, all the main retailers will have launched their festive campaigns \u2013 but this year they're spending a lot more cash on the internet to mirror shopping habits",
  "id": "media/2013/nov/02/christmas-tv-adverts-retailers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}