{
  "content": "Sweeping new powers are being put in place - often driven by UK ministers with encouragement from Washington - many of which have little or nothing to do with combating \"terrorism\". The result is the introduction of swathes of internal security and surveillance measures and a massive increase in the amount of data exchanged by law enforcement agencies around the world, most of which is not subject to accountability or democratic scrutiny. Europol: the EU's 'FBI' Europol was established in 1993 as an \"umbrella\" agency for intelligence exchange and gathering between the member states criminal intelligence services, such as the National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS) in the UK. Member states' police and intelligence services can use Europol to exchange data covering more than 30 offences, and the agency is now to take on operational roles. Europol records all enquiries and data exchanged in its database (about 80,000 items to date) and runs analysis work files (AWF) on specific organisations and types of crime. There is no real limit on the information that these files can contain, with 53 specific types of personal data defined, from DNA to bank records to various \"behavioural data\" for real or suspected crime involving two or more member states. Information can be kept on potential offences, suspects, witnesses, victims, contacts, associates and informants. Last year Europol was running 16 analysis files covering drug trafficking and production, illegal immigration, a paedophile network, suspicious financial transactions, specific organised crime groups, \"anarchist terrorism\" and \"Islamic extremist terrorism\" (started well before September 11). Theoretically, Europol operates under a strict data protection regime, guaranteeing individuals the right to the correction and deletion of wrongly held information, and compensation if it unlawfully used. However, whether a person is actually able to find out what information Europol holds on them is doubtful, as the agency is given maximum discretion as to what it must release. Under treaties adopted by the Council of the European Union - made up of the 15 EU governments - Europol can exchange personal data with non-EU states and agencies. Agreements with Interpol, Iceland and Norway and the first six EU accession candidate countries have been concluded, and negotiations with another dozen central and eastern Europe countries and Canada, Bolivia and Columbia are pending. So too is one with the US - which has no data protection rules at the federal level to cover non-US nationals. Schengen Information System Where Europol gives the EU a developing \"FBI\", Schengen gives it extensive operational law enforcement databases. The Schengen Information System went live in 1995 and now covers 13 of the 15 EU states - the UK and Ireland are now the only states not participating, though plans to incorporate them are well underway. Law enforcement agencies (LEAs) can make entries onto the SIS for: people wanted for arrest (the recently agreed European arrest warrant will be issued this way); those to be placed under surveillance or subject to specific checks; people to be refused entry at external borders (on either national security or immigration grounds); and lost or stolen items. It currently contains more than 11 million records, 3 million of which relate to people (mostly rejected immigrants and asylum-seekers) and there are some 55,000 access points across the EU. Given that the inclusion of a person on the SIS may lead to direct sanctions against them, the use and protection of data is a very serious concern, though this has only been tested in a few cases so far. It took two Welsh football fans six years to get their names removed from the database following their arrest on a Belgian train in 1992. Strip-searched, detained for 16 hours and deported in handcuffs, it transpired that the NCIS had included them on a list of suspected \"hooligans\" passed to Belgian authorities. Their inclusion on the UK list was itself based on an erroneous claim from Luxembourg authorities that the two had \"caused disorder\" during a security check in 1990. In another instance in 1998, Stephanie Mills, a Greenpeace activist from New Zealand, was refused entry to the entire Schengen area by Dutch authorities following France's decision to put a number of Greenpeace campaigners into the SIS. More data, wider access Since 11 September the EU has embarked on an extension of the SIS and proposed four new categories of people to be included: \"violent troublemakers\" such as protestors and suspected football hooligans, who would be banned from travelling to a demonstration or match; terrorist suspects; people to be prevented from leaving the EU; and people whose visas have expired, who would be subject to arrest and expulsion. Two further databases are being proposed, an \"EU visa database\" to record all visa applications (issued and refused) and a database of all third country nationals legally resident in the EU (more than 14 million people). Now plans are being discussed to allow Europol access to the SIS with powers to add or amend entries. Access to the SIS for the EU's newly-created security and intelligence agencies network is also on the cards, though the data protection provisions will have to be amended first. Alongside the SIS is the Eurodac database, which will hold the fingerprints of every asylum-seeker, \"irregular\" and \"illegal\" immigrant in the EU over the age of 14 - there are demands that the",
  "title": "The EU 's surveillance network",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/surveillance"
  ],
  "lead": "Personal information held on you by British law enforcement agencies may not remain in this country alone. Since September 11, European Union plans for the sharing of personal data across national borders have mushroomed, say Tony Bunyan and Ben Hayes",
  "id": "uk/2002/sep/10/privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}