{
  "content": "A former army intelligence officer has been prevented from talking to the British media about his new book telling the inside story of a former army spy who worked in the highest echelons of the IRA, because of a Ministry of Defence injunction. Martin Ingrams was scheduled to talk about the book, Stakeknife, on the BBC's Today programme and his publishers say they had also been in talks with Channel 4 News. The BBC decided to pull the plug on the Today interview after learning that Mr Ingrams is the subject of an MoD injunction preventing him from talking about his work for the Force Research Unit, handling army agents who infiltrated paramilitary groups in Northern Ireland. A spokesman for Channel 4 News said the programme had decided not to run the interview for editorial reasons. Mr Ingrams blamed the media's reluctance to interview him on the \"post-Hutton\" climate. \"I'm disappointed that the interviews haven't gone ahead, but given the post-Hutton era we live in I'm not surprised,\" he said. It has been suggested that the BBC in particular was keen to avoid another row with the MoD following the criticism of the corporation in Lord Hutton's report. However, a BBC spokeswoman said the decision was made for purely legal reasons. \"If there's a legal injunction, we comply with it,\" she said. \"The publisher came to the Today programme with the suggestion that Martin Ingrams came on. They didn't at that point tell us that there was an injunction against him. \"It was on the news diary, but something that is on the news diary doesn't necessarily appear. Items from publishers can go in and out of the running order,\" she added. Mr Ingrams has been interviewed on Ireland's main RTE radio station, and has also spoken about the book on the radio in New York. Stakeknife, which Mr Ingrams co-authored with People journalist Greg Harkin, tells the tale of the eponymous British army agent who was deputy head of the Provisional IRA's internal security unit, the \"Nutting Squad\". Harkin was one of the journalists who in May 2003 named a west Belfast man, Freddie Scappaticci, as Stakeknife. Mr Scappaticci has consistently denied the allegation and said newspapers endangered his life and that of his family by reporting the claim. Earlier this month he failed to obtain an injunction against Mr Ingrams' book at the high court in Belfast. Despite the MoD injunction, publishers of the O'Brien Press have released the book in England and Wales. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "MoD injunction on Stakeknife author",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/television",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/radio",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "8am: A former army intelligence officer has been prevented from talking to the British media about his book on a high-level IRA informer after the Ministry of Defence secured an injunction against him, reports Ciar Byrne",
  "id": "media/2004/feb/24/broadcasting.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}