{
  "content": "The Home Office sought yesterday to allay fears of a Big Brother state with the publication of a consultation paper which proposes to restrict the number of officials who can access communication data. A second paper proposes a code of conduct for service providers to allow for the retention of data for a maximum of 12 months as part of the fight against crime and terrorism. If the service providers object, the government says it will make retention compulsory. The proposals won a mixed response from civil liberties groups. John Wadham, the director of Liberty, said: \"The original snooper's charter proposals were appallingly excessive. We welcome much of the government plan to step back from them. But authorities accessing this data should need a warrant from a judge - that's the only truly independent safeguard that can produce public confidence.\" Simon Davies, director of Privacy International, said he believed the plans were a \"Trojan horse\" which would roll back legal protections for privacy. \"The government gives the impression that it is being entirely reasonable. But what this means is that all bets are off: this is designed to open up the entire debate about privacy.\" But Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said: \"It looks like the Home Office is actually listening for once. The proposals are a vast improvement on the plans published last year.\" The papers are the government's response to the furore last June when the Guardian revealed that every local authority and a number of other public bodies and quangos would have access to phone, email and internet data, short of actual content. Such powers had been the domain only of the police, MI5, MI6, the government listening post GCHQ, customs and excise and the Inland Revenue. That plan was hastily withdrawn by the home secretary, David Blunkett, with an admission he had got it wrong. Yesterday he said a balance had to be reached between privacy and protecting the public. The access to data paper points out that many of the authorities have had access to data for years. They make about 23,000 requests for data a year, compared with half a million from groups such as the police, customs and the intelligence services. It also says the government had failed to explain that it intended to publish a second order last year which would have made it clear which individuals in an authority would be authorised to access the data. So the order listing the vast Department for Transport, Local Government and the Regions would have been qualified to name only two people in the maritime and coastguard agency, rising to 11 in search and rescue emergencies. The new list was presented yesterday by the Home Office minister, Bob Ainsworth, who said: \"Our plans will ensure that all crimes can be investigated whether drug dealing, phoney trading or selling food unfit for human consumption, but with access limited to what is strictly necessary.\" The intention was to provide a \"single regulatory regime\" in compliance with human rights legislation and to set up an oversight and complaints mechanism.",
  "title": "New limits may allay fears on snooping",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "politics/politics",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "uk/immigration"
  ],
  "lead": "The Home Office sought yesterday to allay fears of a Big Brother state with the publication of a consultation paper which proposes to restrict the number of officials who can access communication data. ",
  "id": "technology/2003/mar/12/onlinesecurity.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}