{
  "content": "Trinidad is a country of avid social media users with a well-established tech and telecommunications infrastructure, made possible by its small geographical size and strong economy. According to World Bank statistics, 65% of the population are internet users (compared to 62% in Italy) and fixed broadband subscription is higher per capita than in Russia. Google has servers in Trinidad, and Fujitsu has managed a tech park on the island for the past decade. There's no Silicon Valley equivalent and no visible community of coders and tech startups but this doesn't mean Trinis, as the population are known, aren't interested in the sector. Universities offer courses and developers do exist but there is less demand for tech-driven solutions on a small island where businesses market themselves adequately on Facebook. \"It's only in recent years that digitally savvy people have begun to look at entrepreneurship rather than employment as a way to leverage their understanding of technology,\" says Mark Lyndersay, tech columnist for the Trinidad Guardian. Lyndersay feels that the pockets of genuine local innovation deserve better resources and more progressive approaches. \"Too many ideas are either shipped abroad for development or die on the vine, neither of which does anything for a local ecosystem of internet technocrats trying to make an independent presence viable.\" Facebook is an even bigger social phenomenon in Trinidad than in Britain. The difference in population (1.3 million compared with 64 million) means real-life social networks overlap far more. This manifests itself on Facebook where you commonly find people you've never heard of but have hundreds of mutual friends with. The boundaries of privacy are less rigid in Trinidad. It's completely normal to have 600 Facebook friends who you don't know and will never meet. Friend requests and messages pop up from total strangers and it's considered normal, even good etiquette, to accept them. Add a stranger and they are likely to accept within seconds. Local gossip stories, videos of public incidents, fights and sex scandals on Facebook can easily become national news stories in Trinidad arousing vigorous online discussion, especially amongst social commentators who achieve fame through politically-charged, thought-piece posts. Politics is omnipresent in Trinidad. You won't find anyone who doesn't know the political news stories of the day. This has been intensified by social media which has become the go-to platform for consuming news and engaging in vigorous, intense and heartfelt political debate. While the two main newspapers have websites, e-editions, apps and even paywalls, Facebook is where news is publicly dissected. Politicians were early adopters in using social media accounts. Refreshingly, they don't employ social PRs to share their opinions for them. Many are even active on WhatsApp. As a reporter you can contact the prime minister on WhatsApp and he will respond. I've been added to WhatsApp groups where cabinet ministers, social activists and opposition MPs have argued and lobbied in message form. Activism also harnesses digital networks. Womantra, a women's rights organisation use social media to mobilise online communities in the form of public protests and educational campaigns around issues like domestic violence, homophobia, rape and victim shaming. Online shopping and banking have recently arrived in Trinidad. Both function reasonably well, but holding back the e-commerce revolution is the fact that banks are reluctant to issue debit and credit cards to many customers. Most provide ATM cards only. TriniTrolley.com with its slogan, \"delivery to your door\" is Trinidad's answer to Amazon, selling DVDs, books, CDs, electronics, toys and even food and groceries. \"TriniTrolley has carved out a fine niche by meeting consumer needs out on the fringes of traditional shopping,\" says Lyndersay. \"There is also a thriving used vehicle market on TriniTuner.com.\" Lower down the food chain, small businesses use Facebook to sell products and to advertise their shops, bars, hairdressers and beauty and cosmetics services. Carnival is a huge business in Trinidad. People save all year to spend hundreds of (US) dollars on costumes. Marketing begins six months in advance. Tens of thousands of costumes are manufactured then sold online. Lyndersay describes how digital and real-life intertwine to produce a compelling sales strategy: \"While the costumes are widely promoted using social media and sold online to cater to audiences abroad, much of the excitement and decision-making associated with costume choices happens in a live interaction [at huge fashion show launches]. Streamed launches, online discussions and TrinidadCarnivalDiary.com play a big part in raising issues.\" With a large diaspora living in North America, Skype is vital for maintaining family links and other kinds of relationships among this migratory population. UCL professor Danny Miller, who co-wrote a book of digital ethnography called Webcam in 2014 says, \"Many couples employ Skype as a kind of 'always on' mode where they don't have to talk with each other but because the camera stays on they can reproduce something more like living together. Skype is seen as a viable basis for a proper relationship. Even in commerce actually being able to see something and talk with someone is increasingly seen as central to establishing relationships of trust. Often when children are absent for long periods Skype establishes a connection that is strong but also allows for autonomy and distance. It's good for getting parents to acknowledge they are growing up.\" Digital could have been designed for Trinidad. It's a country preoccupied with visual aesthetics and it celebrates extroverts, which means technology is used in a polar opposite way to the stereotype of the loner sat at home in front of their computer. Above all, it's a country that embraces new things wholeheartedly and is desperate not to be left behind. It wants to move forward, away from the colonial past. As Miller told me when we met on the island, \"I see Trinidad as the vanguard of modernity. Trinis are modern because they will take things and run with them, play with them, see what they can do with them. They're not scared of the modern.\" To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media &amp; Tech Network membership. All Guardian Media &amp; Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \"Paid for by\" \u2013 find out more here.",
  "title": "'You can WhatsApp the prime minister' \u2013 what tech means to Trinidad",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "world/trinidad-and-tobago",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/google"
  ],
  "lead": "In the first of our new Global Tech series, Joshua Surtees explores the impact of social media and digital developments on community and wider society in Trinidad and Tobago",
  "id": "media-network/2016/mar/29/digital-trinidad-society-community-technology",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}