{
  "content": "The editor of this newspaper, the host of Comment is free, rebuked me a couple of weeks ago for selling out. The issue was that of privacy. I had given a talk on a panel at the International Press Institute's meeting in Edinburgh on privacy and said the pass had been sold. I was sitting on a panel with Sir Christopher Meyer, the chairman of the Press Complaints Commission and author (in DC Confidential) of a revelatory book on the political masters he served, both Conservative and Labour. I said that if senior diplomats felt no need to keep confidences - on the contrary, were rewarded financially for breaking them - then there was nothing further to be done; that which one newspaper did not publish would be revealed by another; the BBC's observance of a rule that sexual affairs were private (as in the case of John Prescott) would be ignored by ITV; and if all else failed, the internet would provide the revelation. Alan Rusbridger, who had spoken on an earlier panel, said this was selling the pass. There were things to be done. You could safeguard privacy - or at least some privacy - by regulations, laws and behaviour. A rebuke from the editor of the Guardian is not to be taken lightly, so I thought about it. And I think he is right - up to a point. He is half right. But so am I. His half gains strength from a speech - quite widely remarked on when given - by the judge Stephen Sedley in the Blackstone lecture series at Pembroke College Oxford, which he called Sex, Libels and Video Surveillance; and from a report by the unjustly obscure information commissioner, Richard Thomas, called What Price Privacy? The Unlawful Trade in Confidential Personal information. Thomas first. What he reveals is a very large scandal: that is, that private investigators are increasingly hired, usually by journalists, to discover personal information on named people. Often these will be public figures and celebrities; less often they will be private citizens with no public profile. In one operation, in which the information commissioner's office was involved with a police team, it was discovered that private investigations had been conducted at the bidding of (and payment by) 305 journalists. These investigations including phone-tapping and searching of criminal records and tax records. The main method of obtaining that information were \"blagging\" - that is, impersonating the data subject or an official seeking information - or corruption, ie paying officials with access to private information. The police searches turned up training manuals for \"blaggers\". One, giving advice on how to get information from a social security office, describes the typical staff member as \"subservient to the rules, rather lacking in personal character\" and advises the blagger: The way to con this type of person is to convince them that you are just as prim and proper as they are. Don't even bother calling them under the pretext you are a cockney or an idiot (sic) because you won't last five seconds. They deal with idiots and layabouts all day, so ring them in the style of a keen little civil servant who wants to learn to solve their problems rather than rely on senior staff at another office. Speak with a clear, confident manner. Be polite and friendly at all times as rudeness will not work here. This kind of \"con\", and the worse offence of bribing officials, including police officers or police auxiliary staff, to give information, is going on in the name of press freedom. When the Commons committee on culture, media and sport investigated the issue in 2003, they asked a number of editors, including Rebekah Wade of the Sun, if they used any of the methods above, she replied that subterfuge was only ever used in the public interest. Asked whether the Sun had paid police for information, she said it had, in the past; pressed on future behaviour, her colleague Andrew Coulson said: \"We operate within the (PCC) code and within the law, and if there is a clear public interest we will.\" Public interest is, of course, a flexible definition, flexibly used. In the case of Garry Flitcroft, a not very well known, married, footballer, the public interest adduced by the Sunday People (part of the Mirror Group of newspapers) for exposing his affairs with two different women was that Flitcroft, as a professional sportsman, was a role model for young people whose flaws thus needed to be exposed in order that they were not putting their trust in a broken vessel. The case was quoted by Sedley in his Blackstone lecture - and he commented thus: One has to wonder what our moral custodians imagine goes on in young people's minds. Possibly - just possibly - a certain number of boys want to grow up playing football like Gary Flitcroft. Is the revelation in the family's Sunday paper that he has been sleeping with a lap dancer going to make then switch to, let us say, Wayne Rooney as their preferred role model? Or is it conceivably going to suggest to them that the great thing about being a professional footballer, or any other kind of media star, is that you can sleep with just about anyone? The court of appeal held that this was not the courts' business. The fact that a more lurid approach would be adopted by the publication than the court would regard as acceptable was, they said, \"not relevant\". It is entirely right that the court has no role as a censor of taste. The right to give offence is a precious component of freedom or expression. But was the question one of taste, or was it whether the substantive content of the article was such as to outweigh Gary Flitcroft's privacy rights? It might well be that the revelation that a professional footballer has been gambling on his own team's fixtures would carry such weight. It is less obvious that how he performs in bed with a woman who is not his wife does so, even if it makes him - in the paper's lofty prose - a serial love rat whose infidelities need to be made known to several million people along with his wife. The Rusbridger-is-right part of this is that - as Sedley goes on to propose - there is something that can be done about this, and about the use of information on a person's private life. Sedley proposes that an independent but statutory regulator should handle cases where privacy is deemed to have been breached while at the same time protecting genuine investigative journalism. The manifest weakness of the PCC in this area is such, Sedley says, that nothing of it should be preserved but its code of conduct, which he adds sets out admirable principles that the more aggressive of its subscribers seem to have very little difficulty in circumventing. A statutory regulator with a brief to protect both private life and to investigative journalism could improve matters. It could also tackle the abuse of private information more vigorously than has happened to date. My half-right part is that this cuts against the contemporary grain. Less of life is now regarded as private - and less of it can be, because one of the effects of the internet has been to mobilise a vast horde of writers, reporters, gossip columnists, voyeurs and opinion columnists who - usually unpaid - love to discover new facts about celebrities and public figures or at least (more usually) love to circulate and embroider them. France's strict privacy laws prevented the publication in the official media of details about the collapse of Nicholas Sarkozy's marriage earlier this year, but it was exhaustively chronicled on the internet. The details of celebrities and public individuals now command a very high price, and herein lies the explanation for the work of the private detectives and the willingness of Sir Christopher to flout the implicit or explicit laws governing the conduct of diplomats even after they have ceased to work for Her Majesty's government. The vast allure of celebrity and the huge markets it generates means that the barriers erected to safeguard privacy of those who wish to be in the public arena (as celebrities) or who cannot help but be (as senior political figures) are generally insufficient Because public figures now must adapt to this, they (the wealthier ones, especially) have made it work for them or have been able to construct more or less adequate defences against it. A new style has developed - that of the public-private person, who can count on skilful public relations to make of a scandal new opportunities. The implicit and usually hypocritical morality surrounding such revelations, of the reveal-the-dark-side-of-the-role-model kind, become common currency and feed back into the developing narratives of the celebrities who profess to have learned and moved on. Scandal, except in the increasingly rare cases where it is genuinely damaging, has thus become another part of the celebrity package; the real damage to a celebrity is that identified a century ago by Wilde: not being talked about. This argues that we have had created a celebrity-public figure sphere where the old laws of behaviour no longer operate. Thus regulatory instruments and new legislation will at best catch only the old media and leave the new untouched. We see both the \"perpetrators\" and the \"victims\" covertly in league with each other - a phenomenon well described (from the inside) in Piers Morgan's book The Insider. We new private-public person is willing to reveal large areas of private life or, under pressure, to come to deals with the media on what can be used and what can be traded (like revelations on other celebrities, as Morgan details). Three forces now set the pace: money, the net and the public-private person. And they have murdered privacy as effectively as Macbeth murdered sleep. Rusbridger is right: something should be attempted. And I'm right: it will achieve, at best, partial victories only. We will have a white and a black market - as we already do. And on the black market, you will be able to get anything.",
  "title": "The death of privacy",
  "lead": "John Lloyd: Money, the internet and a new type of 'public-private person' have conspired to destroy old notions of confidentiality.",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2006/jun/12/post151",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}