{
  "content": "I'm marking my return from holiday by serialising the second and updated edition of The phone-hacking scandal: journalism on trial.* It has several new chapters, along with revisions to previous chapters. I am beginning with my contribution, an afterword that seeks to place phone hacking in some sort of historical perspective. Before I do that, let me draw your attention to two statements made to the Leveson inquiry: \"Let me assure you the British press is vastly better behaved and disciplined than when I started in newspapers in the seventies. Then much of its behaviour was outrageous. It was not uncommon for reporters to steal photographs from homes. Blatant subterfuge was commonly used. There were no restraints on invasions of privacy. Harassment was the rule rather than the exception.\" That was Paul Dacre, Daily Mail editor, addressing one of the pre-inquiry seminars in October last year. \"Over the years unethical practices such as reporters entering hospitals pretending to be relatives of a patient to get a story have thankfully ceased.\" That was Mazher Mahmood, former News of the World investigations editor, in his first witness statement to the inquiry in December last year. Both were owning up to bad behaviour by journalists in the past in order to suggest that things had got better. But my afterword, while largely accepting the truth of their statements, has a different slant... The interception of private voicemail messages was not an isolated incident that arrived out of nowhere. It was not an aberration, as most of the current editors of popular newspapers would wish us, and the Leveson inquiry, to believe. It should be viewed instead as the culmination of an historical process stretching back many years and, at the same time, as a consequence of the mode of ownership of our press. When I first entered journalism in the early 1960s, working on a local newspaper in a highly competitive news area on the fringes of east London, I became aware that some less than scrupulous reporters were prepared to bend the rules in order to obtain stories and/or pictures. Not that there were any rules as such. In those days, there was no industry written code of behaviour, nor would there be until 1991. When I joined the National Union of Journalists it was pointed out that it had a code, which seemed reasonable enough. But I can never remember anyone quoting it, and certainly not at the college where we apprentices studied once a week to gain our proficiency certificates. We were learning our trade on the job and within our offices ethical guidelines were largely set by individual editors. They relied on some rough-and-ready assimilation of custom and practice to guide their decision-making. I am happy to report that my first editor was anything but a rogue, and I am sure that the rest of my colleagues in our tiny office also acted honourably. We got to know of instances, admittedly rare, where reporters on rival newspapers did things of which we disapproved. One rarely attended magistrates' court, for example, but dared to write reports based on briefings from those of us who did. A couple of boastful reporters told of \"borrowing\" pictures when interviewing bereaved people, though I readily concede that this practice is much disputed and has gained urban myth status. Certainly, there were instances of composing quotable quotes because interviewees were often inarticulate or tongue-tied. I own up to that. And I recall impersonating a pop group manager in a telephone call in order to trap an impresario suspected of taking back-handers when booking bands. My initial direct experience of unethical journalistic behaviour occurred when I moonlighted at a London news agency. On my first shift I was sent to cover a house fire in which an elderly former actress had perished. The bad-tempered news editor gave me the name of a policeman I would find at the house and told me to approach him out of earshot of his colleagues so that he could hand over a \"collect photo\". I thought little of it until I arrived at the scene and quickly ascertained that the officer had removed it from the house. Did I hand it back? Of course I didn't. Did it concern me? Not a jot. It just seemed to me then, barely 18 years old at the time, that I had moved into the world of grown-ups. I certainly didn't pay the officer and have no idea whether any money changed hands later. He was clearly friendly with the news editor, asking me to pass on a message about their meeting soon for a drink. In subsequent shifts I came to realise that the news agency used the services of an \"earwigger\", a person employed to listen in to police radio calls, arguably an illegal activity. It meant that reporters sometimes arrived at incidents simultaneously with the police. Many years later, when writing my history of the British press, I discovered that the London Evening News scooped the opposition to break the story of the Great Train Robbery in 1963 due to a tip from an earwigger. The news agency, and all Fleet Street news desks at the time, traced people by using what were called \"reverse telephone directories\". These were supposed to be restricted to police and emergency services. Though it was said to be against the law to own them and use them I never heard of any action being taken. The real lesson here is that many journalists thought they were illegal and were completely untroubled by the fact. It was, if you like, part of an unwritten code. Journalists believed they had special rights. I grew to understand that we operated to our own rules. I cannot remember ever talking about the freedom of the press but I guess our elders and betters would have used that justification if pushed. Then again, nobody did push. Living inside the journalistic bubble, especially at a time of even greater official secrecy and bureaucratic opacity than exists today, inured us to criticism. We tended to admire those reporters who indulged in outrageous stunts to obtain stories. These were \"operators\", people who always managed to get the story their editors wanted. Reporters on national Sunday newspapers of the 1950s were noted for their scoop-getting exploits. The great and the good of popular journalism, including editorial overlords such as the Mirror group's Hugh Cudlipp, liked nothing better than to tell stories of ethically suspect escapades. A website called GentlemenRanters.com is a goldmine of veteran reporters' reminiscences about dodgy practices, including the composing of fake expenses, another example of journalistic illegality that we all considered totally harmless - just a bit of fun. Reporters were only too happy to get up to all sorts of tricks to obtain stories (as Dacre and Mahmood told Leveson). Some of them might well be regarded as unethical and even illegal. Reporters dressed in white coats to get into hospital wards. They routinely blagged information in telephone calls to bureaucrats. They had little respect for privacy. Photographers thought nothing of trespassing. The cheque books were opened regularly. Meanwhile, back in the office, editors were requiring sub-editors to \"improve\" quotes and stretch heavily angled stories almost to breaking point. And all of this was common before we reached the watershed of the Profumo affair in 1963, a defining moment in the history of press misconduct. Amid a feeding frenzy, people's privacy was invaded. They were pursued and harassed. Much of what was published was wildly inaccurate, misleading and distorted. There was invention on a grand scale. People who had been convicted of crimes were paid by newspapers. Even trial witnesses were promised money, on occasion just before they were about to give evidence. Newspapers competed to publish ever more sensational stories under lurid headlines. There was an obsession with sex and spies, much of it fanciful. The subsequent censures by the regulator of the time, the Press Council, were treated with scorn by editors. The News of the World's editor published an article attacking the Press Council for failing to appreciate that the revelations had been in the public interest. The episode reinforced, yet again, the feeling that journalists need not concern themselves with ethics. They had a privileged position in society because they were acting on behalf of that society. In 1973, the News of the World's leading investigative journalist, Trevor Kempson, was responsible for the resignations of two junior Conservative ministers, Lords Lambton and Jellicoe, because of their liaisons with prostitutes. In Lambton's case, the newspaper had paid the prostitute and her husband to obtain photographs taken through a two-way mirror. Though the newspaper's editor was too nervous to publish, Lambton suspected that it would and resigned his post as air minister. Both the News of the World and The People promptly published the story. Their public interest justification, that Lambton's actions constituted a threat to national security, was found to be bogus. In Jellicoe's case, an inquiry concluded that there had been \"nothing in his conduct to suggest that the risk of indiscretions on these occasions was other than negligible.\" For years afterwards, Kempson, a well-known pub raconteur, loved to tell how he concealed a microphone in the nose of a teddy bear on the prostitute's bed. Kempson carried out many investigations involving sexual indiscretions and was regarded as something of a hero among News of the World colleagues, especially by newcomers who were eager to emulate his success. Tomorrow: The dark days of the 1980s, the Diana years and the rise of celebrity journalism *The phone hacking scandal: journalism on trial, second and updated edition, edited by Richard Lance Keeble and John Mair, will be published by Abramis on 17 September",
  "title": "Hacking book: what journalistic 'operators' got up to in the past",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/pauldacre",
    "media/mazher-mahmood",
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/thepeople",
    "media/nationalunionofjournalists",
    "uk/john-profumo",
    "media/daily-mirror",
    "media/sun",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/local-newspapers"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade opens a serialisation of the updated edition of The phone-hacking scandal: journalism on trial with the first part of his own afterword",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2012/sep/03/leveson-inquiry-privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}