{
  "content": "Like Dr Haider Warraich, I have to admit to occasionally Googling patients I have seen. When I ask colleagues and GP friends whether they do the same, there's a resounding \"yes\". Someone is famous or has claimed notoriety of some sort during a consultation \u2013 who wouldn't be curious and seek to find out more? Over the years I've Googled the odd rock star, film-maker, writer, actor and others. GPs are sociable beings and interested in people. The social side of people, who they are and what they do, can be important and relevant to the problem they bring to the consultation. It is unusual for me not to know what someone does as they leave my consulting room. Curiosity often gets the better of me but I feel it helps me build a rapport and a better understanding of the person. I'm not presented with fame very often. Hackney, in east London, with its high rates of deprivation, isn't quite Hollywood. I also work for the NHS. I think the real celebs mostly see doctors privately. Seeing someone famous, however, does create a bit of excitement in an otherwise routine day. Having said that I don't believe doctors in the UK Google their patients routinely. If I am puzzled about someone I've seen \u2013 it may be their behaviour or a life history that doesn't seem to add up \u2013 it is not Google I turn to, but their medical records. In the NHS we have access to records for the majority of the population from when they were born, and sometimes these can be quite revealing. Doctors working in a hospital or in some other context may not have this wealth of information to hand, so may turn to Google instead. Googling and gaining further information about patients has its pitfalls. If it is used for medical purposes, can the information be relied upon? Most celebrity gossip probably couldn't. But if people have uploaded photos and personal information to a public space, then this is what they have chosen to say about themselves. Would they want their doctor to see it, though? In a world increasingly dominated by social media, I'm surprised how freely people share personal information that could backfire if others go searching. What do doctors do if they find out on the web that one of their patients has a drug habit? If there were child protection concerns we would have a professional duty to act upon this information. But what about an adult on a drug binge, with no responsibility for others? If this is clinically relevant, how might a doctor introduce information gleamed from the public domain into a conversation that hasn't been initiated by the patient? Maintaining trust in the doctor\u2013patient relationship is very important. Can a patient trust a doctor who presents information that has not been offered within the confines of the consultation? Likewise, GP colleagues have been unnerved by patients who have Googled them. It seems to encroach on the personal when the doctor wishes to be in professional mode, and again may affect mutual trust. The importance of maintaining professional boundaries is engrained in us from day one of medical school. No patient has ever told me that I have been Googled. I don't think I would mind but I might wonder why and feel it was irrelevant to the relationship that I have with them as their doctor. Maybe there are power issues at play here. One party to the consultation knows more than the other. For some people, Googling and trying to find out about your doctor could be an attempt to redress this imbalance. However, patients are unlikely to find anything salacious. Our regulatory and professional bodies, the General Medical Council and British Medical Association, are very clear on this, which is good general advice for everyone. Simply, don't put anything out there that could come back to haunt you.",
  "title": "Yes, I sometimes Google my patients. Is this surprising? | Kate Adams",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "society/gps",
    "society/doctors",
    "society/health",
    "society/nhs",
    "society/society",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Kate Adams: Curiosity about my patients often gets the better of me, but it helps build a rapport. However, there are some potential pitfalls",
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/jan/08/google-patients-gp-rapport-pitfalls",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}