{
  "content": "The Data Protection Act is hardly the most popular piece of legislation at the moment. It has been relied on by the police for not pointing out that a man accused of several rapes of young girls might not be suited as a school caretaker, and by British Gas for allowing two pensioners to die of cold. On a less serious level it also leads to hordes of call centre workers being told they must ask for a customer's full CV before saying what interest rate is offered on their account. While these interpretations of the Act cannot be justified, it is framed in such vague terms as, according to the Law Society Gazette, to make working with it, 'like wading through treacle'. For all the speculation on its meaning, there has been little in the way of authoritative decisions by the courts to help interpret it. The Court of Appeal has now ruled on what information people are entitled to when making a request from organisations that hold data on them. This aspect of the Act can be a powerful weapon in the hands of consumers who feel they have been treated unfairly by, for instance, banks or government departments, as well as credit reference agencies, who are the most frequent recipients of such requests. For a \u00a310 fee the organisation has to disclose all \"personal data\" they hold on a \"subject\". The information must be sent in an intelligible form, with computer codes and banking jargon explained. Where the data is likely to be used as the sole criteria for an automated decision on important matters, such as establishing creditworthiness or evaluating performance at work, the applicant is also entitled to be told the logic involved in that decision making, a provision often ignored by lenders. Commercial confidentiality is not a ground for refusing disclosure. Even less so is the fact that the data might contain matters that could lead to the subject suing the business. There are a few exceptions to the duty to disclose, including information gathered for the purposes of collecting taxes, preventing crime and, curiously, journalism. Many businesses actually waive the \u00a310 fee. The disgruntled who are required to pay a fee might bear in mind that sending \u00a310 cash to the head office of a large organisation invariably costs it a lot more than that sum to process. The act is also useful for those who want a large number of old bank and credit card statements, which often, for instance, are needed in divorce cases. As banks require up to \u00a310 per sheet there is a significant saving in seeking them all under the act. Michael Durant, whose case went to the Court of Appeal, had a long standing dispute with Barclays against whom he brought legal proceedings which he lost in 1993. For years afterwards he tried to get the Financial Services Authority to investigate the bank, in the hope it would bring to light material that would enable him to reopen the proceedings. The FSA refused his request under the act for most of the information he was seeking on the basis that it was not \"personal data\". The county court upheld that, but Mr Durant was given permission to take the matter to the Court of Appeal. The Court decided that to qualify as \"personal\", data had to be focused on the subject of biographical significance in relation to him. Incidental references to him were not sufficient. Thus the fact that Mr Durant's name might have appeared in certain documents about the investigation did not in itself entitle him to them. This is a narrower interpretation of the act than might have been expected, and will frustrate those hoping for a deep insight into how an organisation functions. However, it will have little impact on the rights of most consumers who simply want more information about how they have been treated by a bank. \u00b7 Richard Colbey is a barrister",
  "title": "Richard Colbey on the Data Protection Act",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "money/consumer-affairs",
    "money/money",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Working with the Data Protection Act can be like 'wading through treacle'. Richard Colbey reports.",
  "id": "money/2004/jan/31/consumerissues.jobsandmoney",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}