{
  "content": "The Russian prime minister Dmitry Medvedev's well-known love for technology led to embarrassment on Thursday as hackers reportedly accessed his Twitter account and unleashed a barrage of hoax tweets. \"I'm resigning. I'm ashamed by the actions of the government. Forgive me,\" read one message from Medvedev's account that was retweeted thousands of times before it was removed. The tweets also purported to reveal that the prime minister planned to become a freelance photographer (Medvedev is a keen amateur), as well as what he really thinks of Vladimir Putin, for whom he kept the presidential seat warm from 2008 to 2012: \"I've wanted to say this for a long time. Vova, you're wrong!\" Another tweet read: \"#CrimeaIsNotOurs please retweet,\" playing on the Russian-language hashtag #CrimeaIsOurs that became popular after Moscow annexed the Ukrainian peninsula. Medvedev and Putin are currently on an official visit to Crimea. The government's press service said on Thursday that Medvedev's account had been hacked and that the account's security had since been strengthened. \"It's obvious that this was a hooligan hacker prank,\" the presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on the radio station Ekho Moskvy. \"It shows once again the need to constantly observe the necessary level of security.\" A group called Shaltay Boltay (\"Humpty Dumpty\" in Russian) appeared to claim credit, tweeting a screenshot of Medvedev's resignation tweet with the caption: \"Ahha, well you understood ;)\". Last month, Shaltay Boltay published leaked emails that it said came from the account of the deputy prime minister and former Medvedev aide Arkady Dvorkovich, after which Russia's communications watchdog blocked its blog and Twitter account. The group also claimed to have \"several emails including a Gmail and the contents of three iPhones of a certain prime minister\", and tweeted photographs of a government meeting from the vantage point of where Medvedev would have chaired it. In a subsequent blogpost, it published emails from several accounts that it said belonged to Medvedev, including receipts for technology purchases and a picture of him in a peasant shirt. While Putin is a proud luddite, saying he doesn't own a mobile phone and rarely goes on the internet, Medvedev is famous for embracing social media and gadgets. He first joined Twitter on a visit to the company's headquarters in Silicon Valley in 2010. In 2013, Medvedev's page on the Russian social network VKontakte was broken into and songs full of obscenities were posted to it. In the wake of the Dvorkovich emails leak, the Russian parliament has been discussing legislation to make sending official information through non-governmental email services a crime. Anton Nosik, a blogger and web entrepreneur, said it would not have been difficult for someone to steal the password to Medvedev's account, since it was likely that several staffers had access to it and did not use additional security measures linked to one person's phone number. He said Shaltay Boltay could be claiming credit for publicity purposes. While the group may have obtained data from Medvedev's email accounts and iPhones, Nosik said some other phishing operation probably hacked the Twitter account, since the jokes seemed spontaneous and the damage was easy to reverse. \"They illegally access info and share it. What they never do is deface something,\" Nosik said, comparing the group to whistleblowers like Julian Assange. \"They have access to many accounts. If they were into impersonation, they could have impersonated the entire government. They have usernames and passwords and access to the emails to which those accounts are registered.\" Nosik was sceptical of attempts to improve security by forcing officials to use a government email system. \"Once you are using servers that are not compatible with the rest of world and maintained by federal agencies, you are offering an unidentified number of our homegrown spies a chance to spy on you,\" he said. \"I believe [officials are] more afraid of their rivals within than they're afraid of the NSA and so forth.\"",
  "title": "Dmitry Medvedev Twitter account hacked",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/dmitry-medvedev",
    "world/russia",
    "world/europe-news",
    "world/world",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "Hoaxers post messages saying Russian PM is resigning to become a photographer, and subverting Crimea hashtag",
  "id": "world/2014/aug/14/dmitry-medvedev-russian-pm-twitter-account-hacked",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}