{
  "content": "MySpace has rolled out its feature which allows people to sync their MySpace status with their Twitter feed. Now it's not just for the US - it's for \"all international (non U.S.) English speaking cultures, including the UK, Canada, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, and India\", according to the enormously excited press release we received. Of course, the question is: why would anyone want to? And, furthermore, isn't that the wrong way round - wouldn't you want to sync your Twitter status to your MySpace status, since Twitter tends to be the place where you go to find things happening in sort-of real time? (Though the system also does this - Twitter updates get passed back to the relevant MySpace account.) And furthermore, doesn't it tell us something different too - that MySpace now feels it has to keep up with the new (socially networked) kid on the block, this Twitter thing? From such subtleties one can perceive how the relationships between these organisations is changing. A year (and certainly two years) ago, MySpace wouldn't have taken the slightest interest in letting people sync their status with Twitter. Now, though, it's throwing the kitchen sink - in the form of an array of, um, celebrities - at this in the hope that it will make us all think that MySpace is (once again? for once?) the groovy place to be. Except that at the end of August, it was Twitter which surpassed MySpace in the UK. To quote the breathless press release again: Feedback from our users has been overwhelmingly positive so far. We've also been excited to see musicians, celebrities and comedians including Lenny Kravitz, John Legend, Rachel Zoe, Margaret Cho, George Lopez, Jamie Kennedy, David Spade, Slash, Cat Deeley, Chamillionaire, Jim Gaffigan, David Alan Grier, Larry The Cable Guy, and John Witherspoon all sync their MySpace and Twitter updates to connect with fans. Brands such as the NBA and Variety also synced their updates across both networks. Thank goodness - I was worried for a moment that Lenny Kravitz's comments on Twitter might be out of step with his MySpace thoughts. Of course, there are various tools around already that let you sync your Twitter content onto Facebook (or only selected tweets). Though Facebook is trying to turn itself into a sort of pseudo-Twitter (especially after its purchase of FriendFeed) as fast as it can. Will this save MySpace? Probably not - it's still in decline last time we looked. And that's before we ask the other obvious question: what's special about English that it can be synced, but other languages can't? Presumably MySpace can already handle foreign languages, so has someone not figured out how to do UTF-16 conversion of the Twitter feed?",
  "title": "Hurrah! MySpace syncing with Twitter in English! What?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/myspace",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "The fact that MySpace is trying to be so excited about linking up with the hot site shows that it's got some problems.",
  "id": "technology/blog/2009/sep/23/myspace-twitter-coordination",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}