{
  "content": "A privacy watchdog has complained that its investigation into claims police spied illegally on journalists has been hampered by David Cameron's failure to appoint a new commissioner. The Interception of Communication Commissioner's office (IOCCO) launched an investigation in July into allegations that officers in two British police forces, including Police Scotland, had bugged journalists without authorisation to discover their sources. The watchdog has told the Scottish parliament's justice committee that it has now finished its investigation but has been unable to get the findings approved and published because it has had no commissioner in place for months, describing the delay as \"incredibly frustrating\". The controversy erupted in August after it emerged that an elite anti-corruption unit in Police Scotland had allegedly used powers to intercept phones and emails without judicial approval, spying on a freelance journalist. Nicola Sturgeon, the Scottish first minister, came under pressure to reveal whether she knew that the surveillance had been taking place. She said she would not discuss the case until IOCCO's investigation was complete. The Scottish Liberal Democrat leader, Willie Rennie, and his justice spokeswoman, Alison McInnes, have written to the prime minister urging him to appoint a new commissioner, so the report can be published and legal action taken if necessary. He said: \"Anyone who believes in freedom of the press won't understand why the prime minister is sitting on his hands. The sooner he appoints a new commissioner, the sooner we get to the bottom of this sorry mess.\" The IOCCO head, Joanna Cavan, said her office had cancelled routine inspections to focus urgently on the police spying investigation, because of the public interest in the case. If it finds a journalist has been unlawfully spied on, the case would be taken to the investigatory powers tribunal, which could then sanction the police force involved. Cavan told the justice committee chair, Christine Grahame: \"I can inform you in confidence that we have now completed our investigations and the conclusions have been prepared for the commissioner to consider and make a determination. \"As you know, unfortunately we do not currently have a commissioner in post and therefore we are unable to progress matters further at this time, which is incredibly frustrating for all concerned.\" She said the previous commissioner, the former judge Sir Anthony May, had written to Cameron on 31 July \u2013 the day his term of office ended \u2013 to urge him to find and appoint his successor. Cavan said she expected a decision on his replacement within weeks, but until then its \"hands are tied\". Paul Holleran, the Scotland organiser for the National Union of Journalists, said: \"The delay in the release of this important report is doing nothing to restore public trust in the political process. \"If someone in Police Scotland has been guilty of illegally monitoring journalists, then the prime minister needs to understand the importance of that issue in relation to democracy and freedom of the press. Transparency and openness is essential to hold to account those in power and David Cameron is preventing that by dragging his feet over the filling of the post of commissioner of IOCCO.\"",
  "title": "Police spying report delayed by failure to appoint commissioner, IOCCO says",
  "lead": "Surveillance watchdog says it has investigated claims officers bugged journalists without permission, but it is not in position to publish findings",
  "tags": [
    "uk/scotland",
    "world/surveillance",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/scotland",
    "politics/politics",
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/police",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/press-freedom",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "uk-news/2015/oct/02/iocco-investigation-claims-police-spied-journalists-scotland",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}