{
  "content": "Thanks in part to social media, young people today pursue celebrity as avidly as riches. In the current warp-speed entertainment world littered with marginally talented, vacuous performers, the vanguard appears to be Miley Cyrus, one of the most Googled people in 2013. Her most recent efforts include contributing \"twerking\" to the common lexicon, and providing the world with a signature Christmas gift, an Instagram selfie emerging from the shower, posed with her familiar tongue. Kate Winslet, sensibilities shocked, recently told Psychologies magazine \"I mean, you think about someone like Miley Cyrus, and I said to my daughter the other day, 'I'm this close to opening my mouth about what's going on with that girl'. Who is actually saying, 'Stop for a second, what do you want, who are you?'\" The classic cautionary tale of \"what do you want, who are you?\" is soon to be revisited in the upcoming 50th anniversary of one of America's most legendary television shows. On an unforgettable Sunday evening in February 1964, with nearly 75 million watching, The Beatles debuted in America on the Ed Sullivan Show, a performance that made them the most popular performers in the world. Six short years later, the group disbanded amidst acrimony and lawsuits. If they had it to do over again, would they have left Liverpool to become the western world's most famous people? On its face, it's a ridiculous question. But with the perspective of half a lifetime, perhaps not so ridiculous considering how their lives unfolded. When the group split up, they were all still under 30; most of their adult lives they were not The Beatles. Despite never matching their group success, as individuals, they all had top-selling records and remained revered figures even as their personal stories were marred by unhappiness. John Lennon, harassed by the Nixon administration for his views on the Vietnam war, was nearly deported from the United States. For some time after the Beatles broke up, he downplayed his past as the group's leader, withdrew from the music scene, and became a contented househusband and father in Manhattan. Touring with The Beatles, Lennon understood the potential physical danger of crowds. Yet in 1980, shortly after he turned 40, he was brutally murdered in front of his wife by a crazed Beatle fan. He never saw his son Sean grow up or reconciled with his other son, Julian. His half-sister Julia told the Independent that she wished John had never picked up a guitar because his fame destroyed their family relationships, led to his personal isolation later in life, and ultimately his death. A similar fate befell George Harrison. The carefree lad of A Hard Day's Night became the Beatle most uncomfortable with fame and often demurred when queried about the group. Once, when he received a request on television to play a Beatles' song, the composer of such Beatle classics as \"Something\" and \"While My Guitar Gently Weeps\" responded tellingly, \"I don't think I know any.\" His first marriage failed when his wife left him for Eric Clapton. Later, George developed smoking-related cancer. Near the end of his life, a deranged intruder entered his home, stabbed him and his second wife, nearly killing them both. Afterward, George rarely left home until he died, still a relatively young man. Ringo Starr also had his share of life's tragedies, including marital infidelity, divorce, alcoholism, and depression. For years he celebrated his good fortune as a Beatle, albeit perhaps a little too hard. In 2008, he offended longtime fans with intemperate remarks about Liverpool and a vandal took revenge by beheading his foliage likeness in a city garden. Paul McCartney's travails related to fame include the proximate cause of The Beatles' breakup, his rancorous dispute with his childhood friend John. McCartney is now happily married to his third wife and one of England's wealthiest men. But after his first wife's untimely death, Sir Paul remarried and ultimately became embroiled in a messy, highly public divorce. The divorce settlement, one of the largest in British history, was a small portion of his fortune but unseemly stories of his private life became an embarrassing staple of the tabloids. Not exactly the idyllic life growing old he crooned about in \"When I'm 64\". Even the two other principals on that long ago television show saw their careers ascend quickly only to fall precipitously. Beatles' manager Brian Epstein died unhappily three years later of an overdose. Epstein, reportedly gay when homosexuality was still a crime in England, was only 32 and his death marked the opening act in The Beatles' dissolution. Meanwhile, American impresario Ed Sullivan could not know that bringing The Beatles to America presaged the end of his career as well. For years, his highly rated show brought the entire family together to watch a wide variety of performers. Honored by an angelic choir in the musical \"Bye By Birdie\", Sullivan became even more popular, briefly, by booking The Beatles. But their appearance fueled the demand for more televised rock acts, ultimately fragmenting his audience. Impatient younger viewers gravitated to new shows that featured popular rock bands sans the jugglers, ventriloquists, and ballerinas. Sullivan could not compete and his ratings plummeted. Within a year of The Beatles' breakup, his show was cancelled. A mere decade after his greatest television coup, Sullivan died an embittered man. The Beatles, with far more talent than Miley Cyrus, contributed so much to our world, but paid dearly for \"so barren a reward as fame\" as John Dryden characterized it. The world's greatest literature including The Bible, the Faust legend, and even the ancient Mesopotamian epic of Gilgamesh all caution that the quest for fame can be a recipe for sorrow. Perhaps if he were alive, John Lennon would shake his head ruefully, and join Kate Winslet in warning Miley Cyrus and others of her generation to be careful what she wishes for.",
  "title": "What the Beatles can teach the selfie generation | Cory Franklin",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "music/thebeatles",
    "technology/photography",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/instagram",
    "science/ageing"
  ],
  "lead": "Cory Franklin: Miley Cyrus is one of many who seem to want fame more than anything. As the Beatles found out, it doesn't bring happiness",
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/jan/11/what-beatles-teach-selfie-generation",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}