{
  "content": "Greetings card website Moonpig has shut down its mobile apps after a security bug exposed personal details of 3 million customers. The flaw, described by one observer as \"the worst security I've ever seen from a large company\", let any attacker access the personal details of every single customer on the website, as well as view past orders and place new ones on any of their accounts. The developer who discovered the vulnerability, Paul Price, says he initially disclosed it to MoonPig in private on August 18 2013. After almost 18 months of prevaricating by the firm, Price decided to go public with the flaw. \"The industry standard is usually within 90 days, I gave them 13 months,\" he told the Guardian. \"I then gave them an extra four months and still no fix. It's at this point I decided to go public with my findings. \"It wasn't an easy decision as it was a live vulnerability but I know it would grab Moonpig's attention and force them to fix it. Who knows how long this has been 'in the wild' and if hackers are routinely scraping Moonpigs customers data for the last two years?\" Only after Price's post was published did MoonPig close access to their mobile apps, sealing off the security hole. \"I've seen some half-arsed security measures in my time but this just takes the biscuit,\" wrote Price. \"Whoever architected this system needs to be shot waterboarded.\" The vulnerability is found in the section of software that lets MoonPig's mobile apps communicate with its servers, called an application programming interface (API). Price found that, rather than securely sending information protected by an individual's username and password, the API sent every request protected by the same credentials, regardless of which user was signed in. The only way the app knew which user's account it was dealing with was a nine-digit number, transmitted unencrypted. Accessing another user's account was as easy for Price as changing that number and re-sending the request, and grants information including postal addresses, birthdays, email addresses, phone numbers, and a portion of credit card data, including the last four digits and expiry dates. Passwords are not leaked, nor enough credit card data to make a purchase. \"Most companies use a combination of your address, date of birth and last 4 digits of your card to identity yourself,\" Price told the Guardian, \"so this leak goes much deeper and compromises Moonpigs customers other third-party accounts.\" \"Given that customer IDs are sequential,\" he added on his blog, \"an attacker would find it very easy to build up a database of Moonpig customers along with their addresses and card details in a few hours \u2013 very scary indeed.\" Surprisingly, the MoonPig flaw is not the first hole Price has found in a British greetings-card website. In October 2013, he disclosed a vulnerability in Funky Pigeon's website which let an attacker take over a user's account and gain access to personal data. That flaw was fixed within a week. MoonPig, which is owned by online photo printing company PhotoBox, said in a statement that \"we are aware of the claims made this morning regarding the security of customer data within our apps. \"We can assure our customers that all password and payment information is and has always been safe. The security of your shopping experience at Moonpig is extremely important to us and we are investigating the detail behind today's report as a priority. As a precaution, our apps will be unavailable for a time whilst we conduct these investigations and we will work to resume a normal service as soon as possible. \"The desktop and mobile websites are unaffected.\" \u2022 Ping-ponging penguins killed off Clinton Cards",
  "title": "Personal details of all MoonPig customers exposed by security bug",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/data-protection"
  ],
  "lead": "The mobile apps for greetings card maker MoonPig have been closed to protect users from a vulnerability that lay unfixed for almost a year and a half",
  "id": "technology/2015/jan/06/personal-details-moonpig-exposed-security-bug",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}