{
  "content": "After my mother died last year, I was clearing out her flat when I found an envelope containing all the cards and letters she received after my identical twin brother's death. He and I were eight weeks' premature \u2013 not such a problem now, but a big deal in 1972. Somehow I clung on, but Richard developed breathing difficulties and gave up the fight after only three days. I think about him a lot as I enter middle age. But until recently these thoughts were abstract and unquantifiable: they related to someone who never was, rather than someone who existed, if only for a moment. That it took a cache of letters to restore Richard to three dimensions is ironic because in most of them he isn't even mentioned. He is a ghostly absence, an awful truth to be tiptoed around. No one seemed to know what to say. The few who dared to address his death piled on the Catholicism, thinking it was what my mother wanted: \"God's will is incomprehensible and hard to bear,\" wrote someone called Eveline. \"Think, though, of your little boy as a tiny saint in heaven.\" (I won't, thanks, if that's OK with you.) I almost prefer the no-nonsense approach of the old neighbour who declared: \"I was, I must confess, a little sad but I really do think it is better that it should happen now rather than you have him for some years and then something happened.\" The next paragraph begins: \"Now the weather looks as though it might be getting better.\" Indeed. In themselves, the letters weren't anything special. So why, beyond the obvious fact of the subject matter, was I so moved by them? Why, after reading them, did I have such a strong urge to go home, open the trunk where I keep all the letters I've received over the years \u2013 a collection that stopped growing around 1997 when email's vice tightened \u2013 and gorge on its contents? Letters have materiality. Even when scrappy and dashed off, they are solid and tangible, complex packets of visual and tactile stimuli: paper, ink, drawings, splodges of marmalade. Walter Benjamin's theory that an original work of art has an \"aura\" reflecting its \"unique existence at the place where it happens to be\" applies equally to that creased A4 note from your sixth-form girlfriend dumping you. You can, of course, type letters. But handwritten ones are better, script being unique to a person and so supremely evocative. In the early 1970s, people wrote letters all the time. In many households, ours included, the telephone still crouched on its own table in the hall. Older people were scared of it. If the phone rang unexpectedly it meant something awful had happened. So you forewarned where possible: it wasn't uncommon to write a letter to make an appointment to speak. So few of us nowadays write letters that it's tempting to think of them as having been superseded by email, texting and Twitter in the same way that vinyl records were supplanted by CDs and MP3s. We like our progress narratives to be tidy. The problem with this is that it overlooks the qualities that make letters so special \u2013 qualities that remain relevant even as the world around us speeds up and communications media become technological extensions of our senses. Before our lives filled with static, we used letters to unjumble thoughts and generally reflect on our lives in tranquil seclusion, in time we had set aside for the purpose. It strikes me that, historically, many of the most important examples of the form clustered around the births (and frequent deaths) of children. It was then that their reflective, consolatory power was most needed, by writer as well as recipient. There was room for levity. On the birth of her brother Frank's son in July 1809, Jane Austen sent him a poem in rhyming couplets: \"My dearest Frank, I wish you joy/ Of Mary's safety with a boy,/ Whose birth has given little pain,/Compared with that of Mary Jane.\" (OK, so it's doggerel \u2013 even Austen had off days.) But Queen Victoria, writing to her daughter, the Princess Royal, on the birth of her first child, simply wanted to share her revulsion with what she called the \"shadow side\" of marriage: \"What you say of the pride of giving birth to an immortal soul is very fine, dear, but I own that I cannot enter into that. I think much more of our being like a cow or a dog at such moments; when our poor nature becomes so very animal and unecstatic.\" After the birth of William Wordsworth's third child, his sister Dorothy wrote a detailed, nuggety birthday letter to her friend Lady Beaumont: \"Dorothy [the baby's elder sister who shared her name] is in ecstasies whenever she sees her little brother, and she talks about him not only the day through but in her dreams at night, 'Baby, baby!'\" But little Thomas, as he was later christened, died aged six and a half from measles, inspiring this letter from his father to the poet Robert Southey, who had been present on the morning of Thomas's birth: \"For myself, dear Southey, I dare not say in what state of mind I am; I loved the Boy with the utmost love of which my soul is capable, and he is taken from me \u2013 yet in the agony of my spirit in surrendering such a treasure I feel a thousand times richer than if I had never possessed it.\" On 22 February 1815, after a pregnancy dominated by illness, Mary Shelley gave birth to a girl, two months prematurely. On 6 March, she wrote this heartbreaking letter to her husband Percy's friend, Thomas Jefferson Hogg, whom she had befriended herself during Percy's bouts of philandering: \"My dearest Hogg, my baby is dead \u2013 will you come to see me as soon as you can. I wish to see you \u2013 It was perfectly well when I went to bed \u2013 I awoke in the night to give it suck. It appeared to be sleeping so quietly that I would not awake it. It was dead then, but we did not find that out till morning \u2013 from its appearance it evidently died of convulsions. Will you come \u2013 you are so calm a creature &amp; Shelley is afraid of a fever from the milk \u2013 for I am no longer a mother now.\" Frequently, mothers would write letters to their children in the womb. Elizabeth Joscelin's hugely popular book The Mothers Legacie to her Unborne Childe, went through eight editions between 1624 and 1684. \"The delight a Parent can take in a childe is hony mingled with gall,\" wrote Joscelin, who died in childbirth, having bought a winding sheet (in which to wrap her own corpse) when she realised she was pregnant. Childbirth is, admittedly, an occasion where email and texting seem to come into their own. Off goes the announcement to everyone in your address book \u2013 a blockade of terse euphemism: \"Mum is doing great!! \u2013 not so pale since the transfusion\" etc. The problem with sending emails is that you get emails back. I forgot to print the replies to our email announcing the birth of our first child before accidentally wiping them from the hard drive. There will be no birthday letters for the next generation to read. Children do still put pen to paper, though. Ever since they learned to write, my eight-year-old daughter and her cousin have exchanged letters every few weeks, inspired in part by letters they have come across in books. Will the habit continue into adulthood? I doubt it. Soon they will get their first mobiles and discover what Sven Birkerts, author of The Gutenberg Elegies, calls the \"ersatz security of a vast lateral connectedness\". The first generation to have grown up with iPads, they will create vast online records of their lives and will, hopefully, be better at backing stuff up than their time-poor, techno-dunce parents. But what if they're not? They will leave behind a mass of wispy, poorly differentiated digital trails that give little sense that they were ever physical beings moving through a physical world. A character in the film The Social Network famously observes: \"The internet's not written in pencil, Mark. It's written in ink.\" But being impossible to eradicate is not the same as being easy or desirable to retrieve. For me at least, the only legacy worth having is one you can clutch in your hands. For the Love of Letters by John O'Connell is published by Short Books, \u00a312.99. To order a copy for \u00a310.39, including free UK p&amp;p, go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6846.",
  "title": "Why letters are the best legacy for family stories",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/family",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "lifeandstyle/bereavement",
    "society/children",
    "lifeandstyle/parents-and-parenting",
    "technology/computing",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle"
  ],
  "lead": "Reading old correspondence to his mother after the death of his twin, made John O'Connell realise that handwritten letters have an evocative presence digital communication can't touch",
  "id": "lifeandstyle/2012/dec/29/letters-best-legacy-family-stories",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}