{
  "content": "Confidentiality has come with the territory for medical practitioners since the inception of the trade. \"All that may come to my knowledge in the exercise of my profession\", the original Hippocratic oath decreed, \"I will keep secret and will never reveal.\" The continuing importance of privacy rests, however, on more than fusty tradition. Whether it is a long-ago abortion or a past heavy drink problem, medical histories often contain the most intimate of secrets, and there must be an absolute right to know they will be kept firmly under wraps. When that changes, anxious patients will grow reticent in seeking advice, which will be ruinous for public health. The logic is simple enough, and yet the current government seems to have a particular problem in taking it on board. A credible opt-out to the costly plan to upload patient records on to a centralised digital \"Spine\" was granted only after the Guardian and the British Medical Association campaigned in 2006. Our chief concern then was that Spine would be prey to the trade in illicit access to supposedly secure databases, the extent of which the information commissioner had discovered. Another worry was that the authorities might decide at some stage that wider access would be convenient, but back then this second anxiety seemed more remote. It seems less so today. As the BMA chair Hamish Meldrum explained to Saturday's Guardian, clause 152 of the coroners and justice bill which is currently going through parliament, would potentially give ministers power to access patient records. The sweeping data-sharing clause applies right across the public sector, and in some contexts - boosting benefit take up, for instance - there is a good case for allowing government computers to talk to each other more often. With patient records, though, it is hard to see what good could come of offering access to anyone but a medic - with the possible exception of researchers who should be able to use anonymous records. At the same time, it is all too easy to imagine why bureaucracies vetting job applicants or checking up on incapacity benefit claimants might be tempted to take a peek. Whitehall talks its familiar talk about safeguards and Chinese walls, and points out a brief inquiry and a fresh Commons vote will precede the conferring of any new powers to snoop. But if there is no plan to exploit patient records, why not write them out of the law? Ministers must do so. Anything less would be another alarming symptom of a chilling indifference to privacy.",
  "title": "Editorial: It is hard to see what good could come of offering anyone but medics access to patient records",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "society/nhs",
    "world/privacy",
    "politics/health",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "society/health",
    "society/society",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/technology",
    "law/uk-civil-liberties"
  ],
  "lead": "Editorial: Medical histories contain intimate secrets, and there must be a right to know they will be kept under wraps",
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/feb/16/privacy-patient-records",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}