{
  "content": "Facebook's feature allowing you to choose an accurate pronunciation of your name for everyone to see (and hear) seems simple enough. Helpful, even. But I haven't pronounced my name correctly in the last 27 years, and I'm afraid to start now. I introduce myself as a three syllable SAH-dee-uh, when my name is actually a two-syllable Sa-Dhya, adapted from a sharper-sounding Arabic name to roll off a softer, Urdu-speaking palate. The trick is in the D. When I spell out \"D as in David\" to the Comcast rep on the phone, what I should be saying is \"D as in Theo.\" But I don't say that. Pronouncing my name the way my mother intended is more foreign to me now than the other way around. Here's the uncomfortable reason why: I'm afraid my name sounds too ... ethnic. That Sa-Dhya won't fit in with her mainstream white American friends and co-workers anymore. That saying my name \"the right way\" will somehow negate the fact that I was born in this country and feel more American than Pakistani. This ambivalence isn't new territory for us third-culture kids. We've always had to make adjustments to fit in. This is especially true when you grow up, as I did, in the suburbs of northern Virginia in the 1990s. \"Saudia Arabia,\" said my Gulf War-savvy peers. \"Queen Latifah!\" said the kids who happened to watch Living Single after school. Anglicizing my name so that it would be easier for white people to pronounce \u2013 and harder to mock \u2013 just came with the territory. The first day of school was always rough, knowing when the teacher was getting closer to your name during roll call. The familiar pause before the bungled attempt. \"SAH-dee-uh,\" I'd correct her, incorrectly. And so began a lifetime of code-switching. At Starbucks, I enunciate so softly the baristas write any number of alternatives: Claudia, Saria, Said, Saudiya. If there's a long line behind me, I say \"Nadia\" to save time. When a guy I'm not interested in leans over in a loud bar or club to ask for my name, I accept whatever version of it he repeats back. When a white friend tries to say my Urdu name in earnest, I wince. With family and other desis, I'm ethnic Sadia again. I'm far from alone in being a cultural sell-out. South Carolina Governor Nimrata \"Nikki\" Haley, Louisiana Governor Piyush \"Bobby\" Jindal, Mindy Kaling and countless Silicon Valley engineers from India and China abbreviate or change their names to make it easier for everyone else. But I always wonder: if you can ask for gluten-free, dairy-free everything at a restaurant with a straight face, why couldn't you also manage to say my real, ethnic name the same way my family does? Because the thing is, I'm done with code-switching. The older I get, the more important my name, and names generally, becomes to me. Like drug kingpin Marlo Stanfield from HBO's The Wire said when he found out he was losing cred on the streets: \"My name is my name.\" When someone messes up your name or never bothers to learn the right way to say it, it's disrespectful. When, on the other hand, you take the time to get someone's name right, you honor them. When you tell yourself that you're just \"bad with names,\" you're telling others you don't care to learn more about them. When George Allen lost his Senate reelection bid in 2006 partly because he called an Indian-American at a political rally \"Macaca,\" even non-brown people could read dismissiveness and disdain into his thoughtless word choice. I stare again at Facebook's suggested pronunciations. I can choose from SAH-dee-uh, SAY-dee-uh, suh-DEE-uh or write my own. I try writing my own, but the robot lady in the audio clip never gets it quite right. So people will just have to talk to me directly to learn about my name, and what it means. It's Sadia. D as in Theo. It means lucky. Sa-Dhya. This article was amended on 20 July 2015 to correct the date of George Allen's comments and the office he was running for when he made them.",
  "title": "I always mispronounce my name for Americans. I'm reclaiming the original | Sadia Latifi",
  "lead": "The Facebook name-pronunciation feature made me realize that, after a lifetime of code-switching, I want to pronounce my name as my mother intended",
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "world/migration"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2015/jul/19/mispronounce-name-for-americans-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}