{
  "content": "The 140 Characters conference is presenting more than 50 speakers in 35 sessions. The speeches are therefore inevitably rather short \u2013 mostly only a couple of minutes. Each speaker has taken their own approach. Tony Mattson, the group business director of UM London, presented a talk about how social media can drive communications strategies and summarised his advice in five rules: 1. Evolve. Listen to what consumers are saying. 2. Maintain. Social media are as well as and not instead of. 3. Refresh. Content is quick online. People go online more. 4. It is all about the conversation. Brands need topics that people want to talk about. 5. Leverage. Social media are now mass media. But you need to consider the whole communication space. 140 Characters founder Daren Forsyth attempted to show that Twitter as a medium is about serendipity. The former former BBC digital executive started by saying that serendipity was like looking for a needle in a haystack and finding a farmer's daughter. He then cited an example from real life, so that everybody could understand his point. On a recent evening Forsyth was looking for onions because he wanted to make hotdogs. He had no red onions, so he asked on Twitter if it was OK to use white ones. And people started to tweet him all kinds of different things about onions. A wild dialogue started. His followers posted recepes, poetry and philosophical links or sent him thoughts like \"The world is a great big onion\". He then remembered that this was actually a song by Marvin Gaye and Tammi Tyrrell, got into a discussion with the follower about it, and now presented the song on stage with a little video. There you go: serendipity. \"Things that tweet\", the speech by the managing director and co-founder of area/code, Kevin Slavin, listed a series of experimental projects. Among these are plants in the house that ask on Twitter for water; sneakers that tell the world when you go running; washing machines that post a tweet when they are finished; and even Tower Bridge is tweeting. Slavin thinks that the idea of everything on earth starting to tweet changes fundamentally how we interact with the world. Unfortunately his speech was too short to go into more detail \u2013 a pity as it is an interesting subject that will evolve as augmented reality applications develop, too. And here is one problem of the conference \u2013 apart from real-world ones such as having no power or not enough wireless access. Indeed, as Forsyth pointed out rightly, Twitter is about serendipity and the way the 140 Conference is structured with more than 50 speakers within a short time does a good job of bringing all its variety. But this has the cost that some things are just mentioned superficially and there is often no discussion.",
  "title": "#140con: The rules of Twitter and things that tweet",
  "lead": "Speakers at the London conference discuss how to use Twitter, from a tweeting Tower Bridge to brands and, well, onions",
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/pda/2009/nov/17/digital-media-socialnetworking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}