{
  "content": "The DNA Testing Centre in Texas welcomes international business and all major credit cards. For a price, customers can order paternity tests, maternity tests, grandparent to grandchild tests and sibling to sibling tests. The speciality is testing targets who don't know they are targets. All that's required is a source - no matter how unsavoury - of DNA. The centre offers to test blood stains; semen (\"If you are not sending it within a few days, keep frozen\"); well-chewed chewing gum (\"Wrigley Juicy Fruit has been found to work best\"); cigarette butts (\"Make sure the person is not a 'dry smoker'... provide up to six butts\"); hard candy (\"such as a lollipop... as long as it has been sucked on for a while\"); semen stains; a sweaty hat, unwashed; a piece of snot; earwax on a cotton bud; used beer cans; electric razor debris; exhumed tissue; and toothbrushes (\"Toothbrushes work approximately 50% of the time, they are usually rinsed after use, which washes off the DNA\"). DNA is the identity card everyone has from birth, that nobody ever forgets to carry with them, that they always copy to their hosts, wherever they go, whether they mean to or not. You brushed your hair, you flossed your teeth, you drank in bars around the world, and you left your ID everywhere. Coiled up tightly inside each of the hundred trillion cells of the human body, DNA encodes the genes which determine our physical characteristics, with long strands of non-genetic \"junk DNA\" in between the genes. More unique than a fingerprint, your DNA can tell a specialist where you were (from a hair or a tiny piece of skin you left), what you did (it can show whether you're the father of a child), what you might look like (it reports on whether you have red hair) and even what you might become (to a limited extent, it predicts the likely onset of future diseases). Forensic DNA tests have given police and the courts a powerful tool for catching and convicting the guilty and absolving the innocent. The unravelling of the mysteries of genes is giving medical science deep new understanding of the mechanisms of illness. But the increasing cheapness and ease with which DNA can be analysed means our previously invisible, indecipherable biological ID cards are being picked up and read by individuals and organisations whose intentions we might not always welcome. British police have been given extraordinarily broad powers to build up a database of DNA identifiers of millions of citizens - taking and keeping DNA samples not just from convicted criminals, but from suspects who are acquitted, creating a new class of people who are almost innocent, but not quite. Some have suggested the simplest way to get round the unfairness is simply to DNA-sample every citizen at birth. This may begin to happen within a generation anyway, as the genetic component of more and more diseases is found. The price of the survival of the NHS in the future may be parents' consent for their children to have their genes scanned for susceptibility to future diseases. Already, millions of people around the world have volunteered their DNA for medical research databases, even though they have no control of the commercial exploitation of discoveries made. The growing health and police genetics databases are hedged with safeguards to prevent improper use of the data, but they represent a new and uniquely intimate form of mass record-keeping on individuals. Even DNA samples held for research are not protected. In Scotland a few months ago the police subpoenaed genetic data from a research study into HIV, seeking to find out whether someone who had taken part in the study was HIV-positive. \"The concern of the commission is that as genetic studies grow, the data ought to be protected from use by the police for forensic purposes,\" said Prof Martin Richards, a member of the Human Genetics Commission. The most worrying aspect of the new readability of DNA is with us already: the vulnerability of stray bits of ourselves to be analysed without our consent. Steve Bing, a Hollywood producer, found this out earlier in the year when the 84-year-old billionaire Kirk Kerkorian hired a private detective to rummage through Bing's bins, looking for a scrap of DNA to prove Bing was the father of his, Kerkorian's, four-year-old daughter. Kerkorian's strange move was to counter a demand from his ex-wife for higher maintenance payments. The detective found a piece of used dental floss in the garbage which apparently carried enough of Bing's DNA to be analysable, although, because Bing hadn't consented, the evidence couldn't have been used in court. Bing, who had just had to admit - after an earlier, consenting paternity test - that he was the father of Liz Hurley's son, was not amused and launched a billion dollar damages claim, later settled out of court, against Kerkorian for invasion of privacy. Private DNA testing centres are springing up around the world, offering mainly to test samples to establish paternity, although there are a range of other relationships they can check as well. British firms like Sunderland-based Dadcheck won't test DNA samples without consent from the people from whom they were taken. But the nature of DNA samples is such that they can easily be sent by post overseas to less scrupulous firms. The Texas DNA Testing Centre, for example, doesn't talk much about content on its website. DNA is, for the time being, useable by the police only to match against a sample they already have, or by somebody who already knows who you are. But forensic researchers are working on the next stage: using an unmatched DNA sample to work out what its owner looks like. The key is identifying the tiny variations in genes which lead to the variations between human beings. Not only can they already tell whether a suspect has red hair or not; they can fix the gender, eye colour and, perhaps, make a decent guess about how tall they are. Skin colour is high up the researcher's wish list. No one yet knows for sure which physical characteristics are determined by genes and which by what happens to children in the womb and while they are growing up. Most - including, one would have thought, height - are likely to be a mixture of the two. That won't necessarily stop companies claiming to be able to forecast appearance from genes. One day you may see a face like yours looming out of a wanted poster with the legend: \"DNA-predicted appearance.\" Then it will be time to remember where you last flossed. \u00b7 James Meek is the Guardian's science correspondent",
  "title": "Codes for conduct",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "In future, the biggest threat to our privacy may lie within us, reports James Meek.",
  "id": "uk/2002/sep/21/privacy5",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}