{
  "content": "Eric Schmidt, the Google CEO, signed up to Twitter this morning \u2013 leading to speculation over a tie-up between the two tech firms. With a press conference at Google HQ due for later today, Schmidt's entry into the Twitter fray has raised the prospect of the search engine giant and the micro-blogging site joining forces - and indeed Biz stone, the CEO of Twitter is at the press conference. His first tweets - as @eschmidt0 \u2013 are not about what he is doing right now, but what he is thinking of, and that is his own performance. So his first Twitter step was a bit of self-promotion, a link to his Wall Street piece \"How Google Can Help Newspapers\" and an attempted link to CNN's GPS with Fareed Zakaria \u2013 but unfortunately CNN has removed the link (in case you are interested, you find the show here). After it is clear now, that it is his real account let's hope that we get a more direct glimpse of what Schmidt is about in the near future as his activity on Twitter would definitely interesting to watch. Schimdt originally signed up as \"eschmidt0\", but switched his account to ericschmidt which got officially verified by Twitter by now. The move is a bit of a surprise, because in spring, his opinion about the micro-messaging system wasn't so good: \"Speaking as a computer scientist, I view all of these as sort of a poor man's email systems\", he said. This exactly leaves room for the speculation, that the reason Eric Schmidt signing up on Twitter is more business related and not because he fancies to micro message with other Tweeters. Meanwhile he already has more than 7,000 followers and is following 73 Twitter accounts \u2013 a mixture of showbiz, politics and news organisations. Of course he is following the Google account, too, and Marissa Mayer \u2013 the company's vice-president of search product \u2013 who hasn't sent a single tweet. Most of the accounts he signed up to are entertainment related: Janet Jackson, the Dixie Chicks, 50 Cent, Heidi Montag and Ivanka are among them. The political Twitter accounts include Barack Obama, Carly Fiorina, Al Gore, the White House, Queen Rania of Jordan. Oh, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. In media and news the account follows The New York Times, Times Magazine, Arianna Huffington, the Onion, the Afghan-Australian media proprietor Saad Mohseni, CNBC talking head Zachary Karabell and, well, Martha Stewart. TechCrunch reported Schmidt's account after some Googlers welcomed him on Twitter.",
  "title": "Google CEO Eric Schmidt joins Twitter \u2013 and gets tongues wagging",
  "lead": "Mercedes Bunz: Is a Twitter/Google tie-up in the offing following search engine CEO joining the micro-blogging platform?",
  "tags": [
    "technology/eric-schmidt",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/pda/2009/dec/07/twitter-eric-schmidt-google-signs-up-on-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}