{
  "content": "Social networks have moved centre stage to become the must-have partners for anyone eager to maximise the distribution of their content online. Many TV content owners have shifted their attention from simply using their own branded portals to adopting a broader approach to content distribution. Social networking sites like MySpace are even getting into the co-production game. Recently revived Hammer Films is using MySpace to co-produce and premiere new \"webisodes\" that update the film studio's legendary B-movie, gore-and-vampire themes for a modern audience. Meanwhile, Bebo is attracting content owners through a new initiative called Open Media. This allows content owners to keep all the ad revenues generated around the content they post on Bebo. So far, more than 60 organisations, including the BBC, Channel 4, ITN and MTV have signed up to provide the social network with their content in exchange for access to its online network of 40 million 15- to 23-year-olds. \"Much has changed in just the last few months,\" says Bebo's director of strategy and operations, Evan Cohen. \"A year ago the focus of many established content providers was on their own websites. Today there's a real eagerness to find new routes to reach their audience - especially the youth audience - through multiple or blended distribution platform deals.\" Social networks are attracting audiences. According to Ofcom, UK adults spend more time on social networking sites than their European neighbours, with 4 in 10 UK adults saying they regularly visit the sites and spend an average of 5.3 hours each month on them. And among younger users, social networks can be even more attractive. Bebo says its users spend an average of 40 minutes per visit on its site. Not so long ago, most content owners believed they could approach digital media with the traditional command and control approach once taken for granted in the old media world. Such thinking, however, holds no water in a web 2.0 world in which consumers value breadth of choice and, increasingly, expect to get content from a variety of sources - not just the web portal of the content creator or media organisation that commissioned it. Blended distribution So-called blended distribution (using various platforms to deliver content) is at the heart of the BBC's approach, says BBC director of future media and technology Ashley Highfield. \"We've always syndicated bbc.co.uk content to third parties - be that RSS feeds or AOL, MSN, YouTube and Yahoo - and it's worked well.\" According to Highfield, the monthly audience for bbc.co.uk is 17 million while the audience for BBC content consumed online, away from its branded site, is another eight million. \"For us it has added significant reach,\" says Highfield. \"The thinking was - and still is - to drive audience from clips of BBC content, shown on third-party sites like YouTube, back to bbc.co.uk to access the full programme using the BBC i-Player.\" In recent months, the BBC has stepped up its third-party distribution strategy. Much like NBC Universal and News Corp have done with hulu.com in the US, it has joined forces with ITV and Channel 4 to develop a new online, on-demand service called Kangaroo. \"We hope Kangaroo will provide us with an additional must-visit destination for longer-form content,\" says David Moody, managing director of BBC Worldwide's media division and an architect of the BBC's involvement in Kangaroo. \"Kangaroo is a complementary strategy over and beyond the BBC's existing online presence. The way ahead will be to satisfy both demand for long-form programming and bite-sized content for people to snack on online.\" Although less advanced as a strategy, blended distribution is also the priority for ITV, says ITV Broadband managing director Annelies van den Belt. So far ITV has not signed a deal with Bebo, but van den Belt says ITV sees \"opportunities to syndicate our video player across partner sites to ensure commercial opportunities around our content are managed by us\". Embedding branded players on thirdparty sites may allow a content owner to control the viewing experience and manage the commercial opportunities around a piece of content, but it is only one of several ways in which content will be monetised, says Tudor Aw, convergence partner at KPMG. \"Media owners will always have their own portals because these will always generate incremental revenue,\" he says. Pay-per-view, advertiser-supported and subscription will all have a role to play - depending on the nature of a particular piece of content. \"The new challenge will be how to best manage a wide and diverse digital property portfolio with fragmented revenue streams. And for the time being at least, there is no definitive answer to this.\"",
  "title": "Joined-up media: MySpace moves to centre stage",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/myspace",
    "technology/web20",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "Content owners are turning to social networking sites to draw in younger audiences and to keep the revenue that online advertising generates. By Meg Carter",
  "id": "media/2008/jan/14/myspace.web20",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}