{
  "content": "Facebook may be reaching 1.15 billion people a month, but the social network has grander ambitions to connect many more people. The main barrier: whether they have internet access at all. Now chief executive Mark Zuckerberg is spearheading an initiative \u2013 internet.org \u2013 that aims to ensure they do. Facebook is one of its founding partners alongside Samsung, Qualcomm, Ericsson, Nokia, Opera and MediaTek. The body's goals involve collaborating on technologies to reduce the cost of internet access; make apps that are more efficient in their data usage; and form partnerships with local operators and companies on new business models for providing internet access. \"There are huge barriers in developing countries to connecting and joining the knowledge economy,\" said Zuckerberg, as he announced the new alliance. \"Internet.org brings together a global partnership that will work to overcome these challenges, including making internet access available to those who cannot currently afford it.\" Several big names from the technology world are conspicuous by their absence from internet.org's founding partners: Google, Apple, Microsoft and Twitter to name but four with a keen interest in these issues. There are no telecoms providers either, although the internet.org founders expect mobile operators to \"play leading roles within the initiative\", with hopes of persuading non-governmental organisations and academic experts to join in the future. \"Our industry is now at an exciting inflection point where internet connectivity is becoming more affordable and efficient for consumers, while still offering them great experiences,\" said Nokia chief executive Stephen Elop. \"Universal internet access will be the next great industrial revolution.\" Alongside the announcement, Zuckerberg published a white paper \u2013 Is Connectivity a Human Right? \u2013 expanding on the reasons for launching internet.org, but also getting in early with his defence against questions about Facebook's commercial motivations. \"The unfair economic reality is that those already on Facebook have way more money than the rest of the world combined, so it may not actually be profitable for us to serve the next few billion people for a very long time, if ever,\" he wrote. \"But we believe everyone deserves to be connected.\" The white paper also set out Facebook's definition of \"basic internet services\" that are most suitable to be provided for free, including data costs. They include messaging, social networks, search engines and Wikipedia, but not video, streaming music, high-resolution photos and app downloads. The report also hints at some of Facebook's aims to tie its social network deeper into the businesses of mobile operators, including zero-rating data traffic \u2013 something it's already done with its Facebook Zero scheme \u2013 but also suggesting deeper ties in the developing world. \"Over time, we may be able to help improve some of the social infrastructure that is still nascent in many developing countries. The lack of credit infrastructure prevents operators from offering post-paid models that could enable them to make longer-term investments in their customers. And while operators know some information about their customers, the pre-paid model prevents them from knowing who their customers are. Giving people the ability to link their Facebook or other accounts with operators could help solve these problems and make it easier to provide better service.\" That approach is unlikely to find favour in countries where people are concerned about their internet use being monitored, given Facebook's emphasis on real-world identities. There is also the risk that internet.org's efforts will effectively be competing with Google's activities around bringing internet access to developing countries. The company has its own zero-rating initiative called Free Zone \u2013 launched most recently with Bharti Airtel in India \u2013 providing free access to services including Google's search engine, Gmail webmail service and Google+ social network. Google is also exploring the idea of using a network of high-tech balloons \u2013 Project Loon \u2013 to provide internet access to \"rural, remote and underserved areas\", although the scheme recently drew criticism from former Microsoft chief Bill Gates. \"When you're dying of malaria, I suppose you'll look up and see that balloon, and I'm not sure how it'll help you,\" Gates told Business Week in an interview about the work of his Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation. \"When a kid gets diarrhoea, no, there's no website that relieves that.\" Zuckerberg has already responded to questions about whether internet.org's priorities are similarly skewed. \"If you can afford a phone, I think it would be really good for you to have access to the internet,\" he told the New York Times.",
  "title": "Facebook teams with tech giants for internet.org initiative to connect 'the next 5billion people'",
  "lead": "Ericsson, Nokia, Qualcomm and Opera on board, but Google missing from efforts to boost web access in developing countries. By Stuart Dredge",
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/computing",
    "technology/nokia",
    "business/qualcomm",
    "technology/mark-zuckerberg",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "technology/google"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2013/aug/21/facebook-mark-zuckerberg-internet-org",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}