{
  "content": "A Canadian man has been found not guilty of criminally harassing two women through Twitter. The case is believed to be the first example of Canadian courts weighing in on issues of harassment on the social media platform, according to the National Post. Gregory Alan Elliott was arrested by Toronto police in November 2012 on allegations that he harassed two feminist activists, Stephanie Guthrie and Heather Reilly, over the course of several months through Twitter. Though the two women had blocked Elliott's account \u2013 preventing him from viewing their tweets or directing tweets at their accounts \u2013 the prosecution charged that Elliott sent an \"incessant and obsessive amount of tweets\" referring to the women obliquely and on hashtags where he believed they might come across his messages. In his ruling, Judge Brent Knazan discussed the nature of communication on Twitter, the right to freedom of expression in Canada's Charter of Rights, and what kind of expectations of private communication Twitter users might have. Knazan also drilled into the nature of hashtags, ruling that the use of a particular hashtag in a tweet should not be considered communications covered by laws against harassment. \"Once someone creates a hashtag, anyone can use it. Everyone has to be able to use it freely; anything less will limit the operation of Twitter in a way that is not consistent with freedom of expression,\" Knazan wrote. The power of Twitter hashtags has been debated for years. In 2014, Wall Street Journal columnist Jeff Yang coined the term \"weaponized hashtag\" to refer to the phenomenon when \"loosely organized and barely controlled social mobs swarm institutions and individuals at a scale large enough so that the trending of the hashtag itself becomes news\". At the time, \"weaponized hashtags\" largely referred to social media campaigns by liberal activists intent on exposing racism, sexism and homophobia, but the August 2014 #GamerGate controversy unleashed a torrent of rightwing misogyny and abuse. Ultimately, the judge ruled that though Elliott's tweets were \"obscene and homophobic in at least two instances\", they were not threatening, and he dismissed the charges. The challenge of combatting harassment while respecting freedom of speech has plagued Twitter and other social media platforms. Former Twitter CEO Dick Costolo took responsibility for the company's failure to address harassment in an internal memo last year, writing, \"We suck at dealing with abuse and trolls on the platform and we've sucked at it for years.\" Twitter users, many of them supporters of #GamerGate, celebrated Elliott's acquittal using the hashtag #FreedomOfTweets, in many cases directing sexist and abusive language toward the complainants. Following the verdict, Elliott posted his first tweet since his arrest.",
  "title": "Canadian man found not guilty in Twitter harassment case",
  "lead": "A judge ruled that Gregory Alan Elliott's 'incessant and obsessive' tweets to two female activists were 'obscene and homophobic' but not threatening",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "society/cyberbullying",
    "world/canada",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/society",
    "world/americas"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2016/jan/22/canada-man-twitter-harassment-not-guilty-gregory-alan-elliot",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}