{
  "content": "I've been editing Comment is free for just over a year now. When I took over as editor, I had various ideas \u2013 some good, some bad, some ridiculous \u2013 about how I wanted to develop the site. These included increasing the diversity and reach of our content \u2013 both in terms of the people who write for us, the subjects they cover and the way we cover them \u2013 and giving as much considered attention to the quality of our threads, and the Comment is free community, as we give to the quality of the articles we publish. I wanted Comment is free to become the home of some of the big debates of the year, such as the government's controversial cuts agenda and the protests that have grown in response. I wanted to open the site up to the best of the rest of the web, through the development of the Guardian Comment Network. And I wanted to build on your always highly valued feedback: in redesigning the front page of the site so that it works better for both users and editors; in launching a subsite on Europe; in having a (sometimes painfully) honest debate about moderation; and in experimenting with different ways of drawing on your knowledge and expertise to enhance our comment journalism. We've achieved a lot, I think. (Who can forget the birthday quiz?!) And I know there is much more to do. But shortly I'm going on maternity leave, and will temporarily hand over to Becky Gardiner, who currently edits the Guardian's Comment pages. We've been working closely together over the past year, and share much in terms of our vision and hopes for the site, so I'm excited to see how things develop as she covers for me as editor of Comment is free while I'm away. Please do make her feel welcome \u2013 I know she's planning to write and introduce herself more fully once she has settled in over the next few weeks. So, stay engaged, stay passionate, keep sharing your ideas. It's been such a pleasure to be part of this community. See you again soon.",
  "title": "Goodbye \u2013 for now \u2013 and see you again soon | Natalie Hanman",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/theguardian",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Natalie Hanman: Talking shop: Together, we have achieved a lot over the past year on Comment is free. It's been such a pleasure to be part of this community. Now I am going on maternity leave \u2013 so please give Becky Gardiner a warm welcome",
  "id": "commentisfree/2011/oct/06/goodbye-for-now-comment-is-free",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}