{
  "content": "Social is dead...long live social! Well, I mean social media (as a distinct departmental construct) is dead. And while I'm at it: long live social business. Social media as a distinct and ownable mission is cooked. From my vantage point at IBM's marketing and communications lab in New York, the argument has been successfully made that social is critical for businesses that want to thrive in a contemporary, connected marketplace. It has fundamentally changed the way we produce, distribute and promote products and services. For this reason, social is too important to simply be a specialisation within your organisation. We need to think beyond \"social media departments\" and finding the next \"director of social media\" and start looking for ways to make social an integrated part of our workplace and a core part of our company-wide training. It used to be the case that understanding Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter was the domain of digital gurus and early adopters \u2013 that just isn't the case any longer. Increasingly, businesses must expect fluency \u2013 and even mastery \u2013 of these platforms from all employees. For these reasons we need to stop fighting for 'ownership' of social (I'm looking at you, marketing and communications departments of the world) and start thinking of social as a way to get work done rather than a way to spread messages. Let's look at three shifts at social savvy organisations: 1. The bean-counters are getting social Can you imagine a future in which the procurement department or finance or \u2013 gasp \u2013 even legal regularly use social platforms to get their jobs done? Well, imagine no more. At many firms \u2013 including IBM \u2013 that's exactly what is happening today. Recently I read an excellent blog post about the relative risks and merits of trial software by my colleague who is a lawyer at IBM's global headquarters. No, that wasn't a blog getting approved by legal it was the legal department actively communicating, soliciting feedback and ideas socially. 2. Goodbye long internal communications; hello employee engagement When I was the editor in chief of IBM's intranet I was keenly aware of how soon my title would be an anachronism. Companies with socially activated workforces do not need internal news agencies. And this was eight years ago \u2013 it was clear then that 'user generated content' was giving traditional news outlets a run for the money externally, so why wouldn't that happen within organisations as well? We accelerated the deconstruction of that editorial department \u2013 or rather, repurposed it into a federated set of communications professionals missioned with opening up the flows of information within working groups though education and provocative digital experiences such as Jams and MOOCs (massive online open curriculum). 3. Online collaborative activity becomes a criterion for advancement The shift here is simple \u2013 senior leaders look to their middle management to move the workforce and effect decisions they've made. If the workforce is engaged socially with one another, the only way to get stuff done will be through direct engagement and being able to prove your effectiveness as a participant on social systems. A friend of mine once said to me that when it comes to community, activity equals influence. So no, I am not talking about tweet quotas for middle managers or a Klout score dependency for a vice president. I am saying that increasingly I see organisations looking for a proven capability to use social in the context of whatever business problem \u2013 product development, customer relationship management and beyond \u2013 as a meaningful component to evaluating future leaders. So, if content was king in the social media revolution of the early 2000s, then truly the king is dead. But long live the king \u2013 because social as a principle for business has moved far beyond where we were at the birth of blogging a decade ago. Ethan McCarty is the director of IBM marketing and communications labs. Find him on twitter @ethanmcc and at www.ethanmccarty.com. He is a speaker at this year's Changing Media Summit 2014. Get more articles like this sent direct to your inbox by signing up for free membership to the Guardian Media Network \u2013 this content is brought to you by Guardian Professional.",
  "title": "Social media is too important to be confined to a single department",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "media-network/changing-media-summit",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Ethan McCarty: Businesses need to work out how to integrate the tool<br /> into their workplace and make it a core part of  company-wide training",
  "id": "media-network/media-network-blog/2014/mar/11/social-media-important-businesses",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}