{
  "content": "The court victory secured on behalf of Prince William and his wife certainly doesn't prove that the French privacy law is so good that we should have one here. Just the opposite. Closer magazine's decision to publish a set of blatantly intrusive pictures of the royal couple illustrates the law's weakness as a brake on press misbehaviour. It may be suggested that it is not the law itself that's the problem - it is the insufficiently punitive range of penalties that lead France's celebrity magazine publishers and editors to defy it so regularly. In fact, the potential penalties for offenders - according to Legal Week - are severe: one year in jail and a fine of \u20ac45,000 (\u00a336,000). Corporate offenders, incidentally, could be fined up to \u20ac225,000 (\u00a3180,000). But judges in France don't impose anything like the maximum penalties. My researches suggest that no-one has ever received a jail sentence (which, I understand, would be a suspended anyway). Instead, most offenders are ordered to pay relatively modest fines. Why should that be? Well, it doesn't take a moment to realise that the French judiciary are being pragmatic because, in spite of the law, they value press freedom more than they do privacy. As I note in my London Evening Standard column today, can you imagine the outcry if an editor or photographer was sent to jail for invading someone's privacy? Do we really think it would be a proportionate punishment to imprison an individual - even if he or she lacks manners and morals - for causing another person embarrassment? I do not doubt that some people would be only too delighted to see certain editors doing porridge, but surely they would need to have been guilty of something more venal than publishing a picture of a topless woman? The latest episode of royal intrusion illustrates once again the virtues of self-regulation over the law. At its best, it works. I agree that, as so often, it has been to the benefit of the royal family (though, behind the scenes, the Press Complaints Commission will say that it benefits plenty of celebrities and other people caught up in news stories too). Of course it needs to be improved and, hopefully, Lord Justice Leveson will recommend a better system. It may need some kind statutory backing, but it won't amount to statutory regulation. Whatever the case, as the French experience indicates, a law would never work. Finally, let's not forget the internet. No national law, no European-wide law, is going to prevent the downloading and uploading of material that may well involve privacy intrusions. Perhaps we all need to rethink our attitude to privacy in the digital age. Day by day, whether we like it or not, life is getting more transparent.",
  "title": "Proper self-regulation works better than the law to protect privacy",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/france",
    "uk/duchess-of-cambridge",
    "uk/prince-william",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/digital-media",
    "law/law",
    "media/magazines",
    "media/pcc",
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "law/lord-justice-leveson",
    "media/london-evening-standard"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade believes French judges who hand out modest fines for invasions of privacy understand the value of press freedom",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2012/sep/19/privacy-medialaw",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}