{
  "content": "Politicians often misjudge the voters, isolated, if they allow themselves to be, inside the Westminster village. In as far as Twitter might be seen as one facet of public mood, Nigel Evans was well out of step yesterday. Evans has clearly been through a nasty ordeal that's taken its toll before it ended in his acquittal of nine sexual offence charges last week. The justice system is a tough place to be whether you are the accused or the victim. That he has decided to take up campaigning for those accused of sexual violence to retain their anonymity in the face of what the statistics tell us is the real issue - 97,000 people are raped a year, on average 15,670 are recorded as crimes and, in 2012-13, there were just 2,333 convictions while prosecutions for false allegations made up just 0.6% of rape cases \u2013 is a pity. That Tory MP Sarah Wollaston, who helped two parliamentary workers bring complaints of rape and sexual assault against the former deputy speaker, has experienced from senior members of her party \"rank hostility since Evans's acquittal, from those who seriously feel I should have done nothing\" is shocking. It may well be that the CPS may have to rethink on historic allegations but that Evans wants a time limit on sex assault accusations is a kick in the teeth to victims of abusers like Jimmy Savile. But what was also unsettling was that Evans was able to grasp the implications of legislation his government passed, when it personally impacted on him. Only, Evans says, when his lawyer told him he had a \u00a3130,000 legal bill did he understand the cuts. Evans has been caught out on costs because of cuts brought in by the Conservative-led coalition under the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act. From 2012, acquitted defendants can only claim from central funds what they paid for employing a private lawyer up to the amount they could have got under legal aid. He said he now regrets that was passed. I'm sure he does. As it was regretted by others out there who aren't able to vent their frustrations in public. There were plenty of people loudly protesting the cuts at the time, and telling parliamentarians like Evans what the impact of legal aid cuts would be, and actually paying your defence team more than you would be able to if you were on legal aid isn't the worst of them. But he didn't listen until he was bitten himself. Which seems just the tiniest bit unfair on the rest of us. And perhaps next time you vote through cuts Mr Evans, you might do the public the favour of considering the implications first.",
  "title": "Nigel Evans MP has been cleared of assault but the aftermath of the case is unsettling",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/nigel-evans",
    "society/rape",
    "politics/sarah-wollaston",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "That MPs misgauge the public mood is a common accusation, but that they don't understand the impact of their own legislation on people is unforgiveable. Nigel Evans owes others caught up in legal aid cuts an apology",
  "id": "theobserver/she-said/2014/apr/15/nigel-evans-mp-has-been-cleared-of-assault-but-the-aftermath-of-the-case-is-unsettling",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}