{
  "content": "Perhaps more than any other, the internet was the backdrop for much of President Obama's State of the Union on Tuesday night \u2013 from healthcare to hackers, and from infrastructure to education. By and large, however, Obama stuck to empty platitudes that no one could disagree with (\"we need to ... protect our children's information\" and \"I intend to protect a free and open internet\") rather than offering concrete new proposals. But don't let the president's standard State of the Union clich\u00e9s fool you: in 2015, the Obama administration will almost certainly re-shape the law around net neutrality, cybersecurity and the NSA. In doing so, the president will carve out the rules of the internet for the coming decade, and his choices over the next few months will significantly affect hundreds of millions of Internet users, along with his lasting legacy. First up will be net neutrality \u2013 the idea that internet providers shouldn't be allowed to intentionally slow down the websites of companies who refuse to pay them a ransom. What was both a polarizing and a back-bench issue just a year ago is now a galvanizing force even for those who don't pay close attention to politics. (Perhaps thanks in part to John Oliver and the rise of Netflix.) In November, Obama surprisingly came out in favor of strong net neutrality regulations after ignoring the issue for years, shortly after his own FCC commissioner, a former telecom lobbyist, indicated that he would side with the cable company giants. Now, the FCC is all but poised to re-categorize internet service providers as public utilities like telephone companies, which will allow the FCC to legally prevent them from deciding which websites will load fast for internet users and which will not. It's a nightmare for the likes Comcast and Time Warner, but could be a windfall for everyone else. Even more shockingly, Republicans \u2013 who were once so ideologically opposed to net neutrality that Ted Cruz referred to it as \"Obamacare for the Internet\" \u2013 have suddenly shifted positions, realizing that, as Jonathan Weisman at the New York Times put it, \"aligning themselves with the cable giants, among the most maligned industries in the country, against the sad Netflix viewer waiting for 'House of Cards' to break through its 'buffering' vortex\" isn't the best political strategy. Throw in a commendable legal push for faster broadband, and the Obama administration could actually do some lasting good. But the end game is far from certain: despite the signals of a shift from the FCC, they still have to actually propose rules (they're due next month) and then survive a blistering fight with the notoriously slimy cable industry before voting on them. It will require backbone from an administration not accustomed to showing one in the face of opposition. Obama will then be forced to contend with NSA reform. As much as the White House would like the issues that Edward Snowden brought to the fore to go away, they won't: Congress will have no choice but to vote on some form of an NSA proposal this year. In June, critical parts of the Patriot Act \u2013 the odious statute secretly used by the NSA to vacuum up the phone records of every single American \u2013 must be renewed by both the House and Senate, or it will expire altogether. There's little chance that it can pass both houses without significant alterations, and the Obama administration strangely has had more power than either party in Congress in shaping what reforms get a vote and what don't: the White House holds sway over the heads of the intelligence community and decides what gets signed into law and what doesn't. Internet surveillance by the NSA has shamefully expanded exponentially under Obama, and despite his 2008 campaign promises to rein in the agency's power, time and again he has let the NSA run roughshod over the privacy of the world's citizens. Yet he has one more chance to do something significant to provide some actual safeguards to Americans' privacy and security. But if nothing changes now \u2013 with the unprecedented attention this issue has garnered over the past year and half \u2013 reform may never come. Finally, one can hardly imagine the year coming to a close without some effort to address cybersecurity: it's the one issue all Republicans and Democrats are convinced they have to do something about, but about which none of them has any clue what to actually do. The White House, for its part, has issued several dangerous proposals which will criminalize all sorts of mundane internet behavior, deter security research, and would do nothing to stop the hacks like the Sony debacle that every politician in the US seems so eager to exploit. But worse, Congress \u2013 absent almost any technical knowledge whatsoever \u2013 wants to hand even more power to US intelligence agencies to collect Americans' private data, and the FBI director (along with his allies in the UK) bizarrely wants to outlaw encryption \u2013 the one tool we know can mitigate so much risk and protect the data every in Congress claims to hold dear. As Xeni Jardin so aptly wrote after Obama referenced \"protecting our children\" as a reason to pass his ominous cybersecurity proposals, \"Any time a president mentions new tech legislation to protect 'our kids,' you know something bad is on the way.\" In the waning years of his last term, now that he no longer has to worry about winning any elections, Obama has the opportunity to actually do something good for our children: protect the internet with all the power of his office and resist the urge to destroy it in the name of terrorism, cybersecurity, or whatever boogie man shows up tomorrow. After all, once it's gone, there's no getting it back.",
  "title": "Obama will fundamentally reshape the internet. But he hasn't said how | Trevor Timm",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/cyberwar",
    "technology/hacking",
    "world/surveillance",
    "technology/net-neutrality",
    "technology/broadband",
    "money/broadband"
  ],
  "lead": "Trevor Timm: The president will have to address net neutrality, the Patriot Act and cybersecurity this year. The platitudes in the State of the Union aren't reassuring",
  "id": "commentisfree/2015/jan/21/obama-future-of-the-internet-state-of-the-union",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}