{
  "content": "It's late night in Moscow, and the Snowden news is slowing down. Here's your recap of the thrilling day that was: \u2022 Edward Snowden, the NSA contractor whose revelations to the Guardian about the scale and scope of US spying and hacking activities has prompted global headlines, has fled Hong Kong and is now in Moscow. \u2022 Ecuador's foreign minister has confirmed that Snowden has requested asylum in the country. WikiLeaks, legal advisors from which are traveling with Snowden, claim that Snowden is \"bound for the Republic of Ecuador via a safe route for the purposes of asylum.\" \u2022 His plane arrived in Russia shortly after 5pm local time. Snowden is not believed to have a Russian visa and is thought to be staying overnight at a capsule hotel inside Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport after reportedly being met on the tarmac by diplomatic cars. \u2022 Snowden was allowed to leave despite the US having filed a request for Hong Kong to arrest him. Hong Kong's government said the documents sent by Washington did not fully meet legal requirements, the statement added, so Snowden was allowed to leave. It has since been reported that the US revoked Snowden's passport on Saturday. It is not clear how he was allowed to leave Hong Kong if this happened. \u2022 There has been an angry reaction in the US to news of Snowden's departure. Keith Alexander, head of the NSA, called Snowden \"an individual who is not acting, in my opinion, with noble intent\". \u2022 American politicians, frustrated over the U.S. inability to catch Snowden, are lashing out at Hong Kong, Russia, and those who would call Snowden's acts heroic. \u2022 Snowden's departure came on the same day the South China Morning Post carried detailed reports of claims from him about US actions against China, including allegations of the hacking of phone text messages. China has said it is \"gravely concerned\" about the revelations. The country's Xinhua news agency called the US \"the biggest villain in our age\" when it comes to hacking. As we await further developments, here's your daily debate-refocusing. From State department chief spokesperson Jen Psaki: As is routine and consistent with US regulations, persons with felony arrest warrants are subject to having their passport revoked. Such a revocation does not affect citizenship status. Persons wanted on felony charges, such as Mr. Snowden, should not be allowed to proceed in any further international travel, other than is necessary to return him to the United States. Because of the Privacy Act, we cannot comment on Mr. Snowden's passport specifically.  Congressman Peter King, always in search of a microphone, has been making the television rounds this afternoon. He's not pleased with senator Rand Paul, one of the few politicians who finds merit in Edward Snowden's deeds. \"I think it is important for the American people to realize that this guy is a traitor, a defector, he's not a hero,\" the congressman added. \"And I heard Senator Rand Paul this morning actually compared Snowden to General Clapper. What's happened to our country? This is a traitor, and for anyone to be comparing him to a U.S. military hero is absolutely disgraceful.\" (h/t Raw Story) More on Snowden's journey, in our full write-up: Edward Snowden was five hours into his flight from Hong Kong, having already been served one of two hot meals, when news of his departure to Moscow began to electrify media organisations all over the world. The Hong Kong authorities waited until Snowden was safely out of Chinese airspace before sending out a short press release that confirmed the intelligence whistle-blower had been allowed to leave on Aeroflot flight SU213, bound for Russia. The 30-year-old had not been stopped on his way to Chek Lap Kok airport, and was allowed to slip away on a hot and humid morning, despite American demands that he be arrested and extradited to face trial for espionage offences. The reason? The Americans had mucked up the legal paperwork, the authorities claimed in a statement released at 4.05pm local time. Meanwhile, back on the U.S. politics front, senators have been continuing to take their shots: \"I hope we'll chase him to the ends of the earth, bring him to justice and let the Russians know there will be consequences if they harbor this guy,\" Sen. Lindsey Graham, R- S.C. said on Fox News Sunday. Some pent-up rage against the Russian government is coming out, it appears. Here are more politicians and commentators all making the same joke about how press freedom isn't great in a number of the countries Snowden may be allegedly considering. As Jonathan Watts mentioned earlier, the environment for \"private media\" is a major issue in Ecuador these days. Here's a recent piece in the New York Times about new regulations governing the media that domestic \"opponents say will quash freedom of expression.\" If Snowden's passport was revoked Saturday, as reported, it's still hard to understand how he would have left Hong Kong without a transit visa. As to whether he could depart the Moscow airport for another country, that's up to the other country. WikiLeaks has released a statement claiming that Snowden is \"bound for Ecuador\" and is awaiting the processing of his application for asylum:  Mr Edward Snowden, the American whistleblower who exposed evidence of a global surveillance regime conducted by US and UK intelligence agencies, has left Hong Kong legally. He is bound for the Republic of Ecuador via a safe route for the purposes of asylum, and is being escorted by diplomats and legal advisors from WikiLeaks. Mr Snowden requested that WikiLeaks use its legal expertise and experience to secure his safety. Once Mr Snowden arrives in Ecuador his request will be formally processed. Former Spanish Judge Mr Baltasar Garzon, legal director of Wikileaks and lawyer for Julian Assange has made the following statement: \"The WikiLeaks legal team and I are interested in preserving Mr Snowden's rights and protecting him as a person. What is being done to Mr Snowden and to Mr Julian Assange - for making or facilitating disclosures in the public interest - is an assault against the people\". Here is a copy of the United States-Ecuador extradition treaty. Ecuador, of course, would face heavy diplomatic pressure from the United States if it chose to grant Snowden asylum. Here's the news of the asylum request, straight from the Twitter feed of Ecuador's foreign minister. This is from AFP via Ecuador's foreign minister. Dominic Rushe in New York has a fuller summary of US politicians' words of warning to Russia, among others, over the Snowden case. It's past midnight in Hong Kong and late evening in Moscow, so time for a summary of the events so far on a day of extraordinary drama: \u2022 Edward Snowden, the NSA contractor whose revelations to the Guardian about the scale and scope of US spying and hacking activities has prompted global headlines, has fled Hong Kong and is now in Moscow. \u2022 His plane arrived in Russia shortly after 5pm local time. Snowden is not believed to have a Russian visa and is thought to be staying overnight at a capsule hotel inside Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport after reportedly being met on the tarmac by diplomatic cars. \u2022 Snowden was allowed to leave despite the US having filed a request for Hong Kong to arrest him. Hong Kong's government said the documents sent by Washington did not fully meet legal requirements, the statement added, so Snowden was allowed to leave. It has since been reported that the US revoked Snowden's passport on Saturday. It is not clear how he was allowed to leave Hong Kong if this happened. \u2022 Snowden is reportedly booked on a flight on Monday from Moscow to Havana, after which he is believed to be heading for another Latin American destination, reported variously as Venezuela or Ecuador. \u2022 The Ecuadorean ambassador to Russia is at the airport but said he had not met Snowden and was not entirely sure where he is.  \u2022 WikiLeaks has claimed in tweets it \"assisted Mr Snowden's political asylum in a democratic country\" and that its \"legal advisers\" are with him, including Sarah Harrison, a WikiLeaks staffer. \u2022 There has been an angry reaction in the US to news of Snowden's departure. Keith Alexander, head of the NSA, called Snowden \"an individual who is not acting, in my opinion, with noble intent\". \u2022 Snowden's departure came on the same day the South China Morning Post carried detailed reports of claims from him about US actions against China, including allegations of the hacking of phone text messages. China has said it is \"gravely concerned\" about the revelations. The country's Xinhua news agency called the US \"the biggest villain in our age\" when it comes to hacking. Here's more from Miriam Elder in Moscow: I just talked to Ecuador's ambassador, Patricio Chavez, inside Sheremtyevo airport, outside the 'capsule hotel' where Snowden is said to take a room. He has not spoken to Snowden yet, he does not know where he is, and he would not confirm these reports that Ecuadorian doctors have examined him. Asked why he was here, Chavez said: \"We have an interest in knowing what is happening to him,\" but would not go further. But it seems the Ecuadoreans know as little as us. The BBC's Moscow correspondent, Daniel Sandford, is now leaning towards Ecuador as the more likely destination for Snowden. ABC reports that Snowden's passport was revoked on Saturday, leaving US officials even more baffled as to how he was allowed to fly out from Hong Kong. It is, however, unlikely to be a problem for Russia \u2013 if Snowden is in transit and never leaves the airport, his immigration status is not Moscow's issue. According to ABC News, Snowden's passport was revoked by the US government - leading to questions as to how exactly he is able to travel. This clip from NBC's Meet the Press gives an interesting illustration of some of the sentiment in the US at the moment. Glenn Greenwald, who wrote about Snowden's revelations for the Guardian, is asked by host David Gregory (from 1m 40s in) why he should not himself be charged with a crime for having \"aided and abetted\" the whistleblower. Greenwald is understandably not impressed. Coincidence or not? Two cars from the Ecuadorean embassy outside the terminal at Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport where Edward Snowden is believed to have landed. Snowden is still in transit at Sheremetyevo airport, according to an airport source, quoted by Interfax. An Aeroflot source said he had taken a small overnight room at terminal E. \"He has arrived. He cannot leave the terminal, since he doesn't have a Russian visa,\" said the Aeroflot source. Journalism in action: reporters in Moscow use an iPad to show passengers arriving from Hong Kong a photograph of Edward Snowden, to confirm he was on the plane. Miriam Elder in Moscow is staring hopefully at a door at Sheremetyevo airport, in case Edward Snowden should leave via it. Jonathan Watts, our Latin America correspondent, has been looking at the pros and cons of two possible refuges for Snowden: Venezuela FOR: Good flight links between Caracas and Havana. Under Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, Venezuela led a growing number of South American nations that distanced themselves politically from the US, while remaining far more democratic than China or Cuba. Ch\u00e1vez's successor, Nicol\u00e1s Maduro has maintained the anti-US rhetoric so is likely to be willing to embrace Snowden. Beautiful climate and great Caribbean beaches. AGAINST: Although a far lesser threat than China or Russia, Venezuela is seen by many in the US as a hostile nation that is under the influence of Cuba. Yet, it is also possible that \u2013 as a democracy \u2013 the country could get a pro-US leader at the next presidential election in 2018. Murder rates in Caracas are among the highest in the world so an assassination attempt might be disguised as just another street crime. Very expensive. Ecuador FOR: WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has been granted refuge here, though he is currently still holed up in the Ecuador embassy in London. WikiLeaks claimed today that it is helping Snowden to secure asylum in \"a democratic nation via a safe route\". Although Ecuador is relatively small, it has strong regional allies and economic support from China, which strengthens its ability to resist extradition requests. It has democratic elections and President Rafael Correa is not afraid of standing up to the US and Europe. Quito is a stunning city in the mountains with great food, decent internet, reasonable prices and easy access to Pacific beaches and Amazon forest. AGAINST: In terms of media freedom, this is no Iceland. Correa has been heavily criticised for cracking down on private media groups, though there is still a diverse range of opinion on TV and in newspapers. A new presidential election must be held in four years, which could usher in a leader who is less willing to grant asylum to foreign whistleblowers. The altitude in Quito takes some getting used to. Birgitta J\u00f3nsd\u00f3ttir, an Icelandic MP and internet freedom activist, has written a handy guide on the obstacles facing Snowden if he opted to head for her country (which was mooted but now seems unlikely). Essentially, she warns, Snowden would not be safe unless the government granted him citizenship, as it did to the chess player Bobby Fischer when he faced US punishment for breaking a sporting embargo on the then-Yugosalvia. Seeking political asylum is a process that can take s long time, and there are no guarantees granted against extradition while the process is ongoing. However, since Snowden faces possible death sentence his case is stronger, for it is illegal to extradite a person who faces a death sentence from Iceland. It is important to note that Iceland has a terrible track record when it comes to granting political asylum to people seeking shelter, as it is hardly ever granted and thus a too dangerous path to be recommended for Snowden... It is important to note that there has not been any formal requests for asylum from Snowden to the Icelandic government and thus impossible for them to respond with affirmative answer until such a request has been received. China's foreign ministry has responded to today's news, both about Snowden's departure and the further allegations about US surveillance in China. On Snowden's departure from Hong Kong: We have noted relevant reports but are not aware of the specifics. We will continue to follow its development. Hong Kong is ruled by law. On the basis of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and the principle of \"one country, two systems\", the central government always respects the HKSAR government's handling of affairs in accordance with law. On the hacking allegations: We are gravely concerned about the recently disclosed cyber attacks by relevant US government agencies against China. It shows once again that China falls victim to cyber attacks. We have made representations with the US. ABC News' This Week with George Stephanopoulos programme had a very timely chat with General Keith Alexander, director of the NSA. Here's some of what he had to say. \"[Snowden is] clearly an individual who's betrayed the trust and confidence we had in him. This is an individual who is not acting, in my opinion, with noble intent.\" On allegations the NSA hacked text messages from Chinese mobile phones: \"To say that we're willfully just collecting all sorts of data would give you the impression that we're just trying to canvas the whole world. \"The fact is what we're trying to do is get the information our nation needs, the foreign intelligence, that primary mission, in this case and the case that Snowden has brought up is in defending this nation from a terrorist attack. \"Now we have other intelligence interests just like other nations do. That's what you'd expect us to do. We do that right. Our main interest: who's collecting on us? And I'd just say let's look back at where that source comes from... \"I'm confident that we're following the laws that our country has in doing what we do. We have a set of laws that guide how NSA acts; we follow those laws. We have tremendous oversight by all three portions of the government: the courts, Congress and the administration. \"Now when you look at these laws and the way they've been passed and the oversight mechanisms that we have, I am confident that we are following our laws.\" Interfax is now reporting that Snowden might spend the night at the Venezuelan embassy in Moscow before leaving on Monday for Havana, en route to Caracas. More on Snowden supposedly being met off the plane by Venezuelan diplomats, this from the ABC News correspondent in Moscow. Here's some more US reaction to Snowden's flight to Russia. First, Mike Rogers (see below), on NBC's Meet the Press: On Cuba and Venezuela: \"Every one of those nations is hostile to the United States.\" And why the US should seek his return: \"When you think about what he says he wants and what his actions are, it defies logic.\" And then Democrat senator Charles Schumer on CNN's State of the Union, saying Russia's Vladimir Putin most likely approved of the plan: Putin always seems almost eager to stick a finger in the eye of the United States - whether it is Syria, Iran and now of course with Snowden... Allies are supposed to treat each other in decent ways. Reuters has been listening to Mike Rogers, the Republic congressman who chairs the Intelligence Select Committee. The initial quotes have Rogers arguing that Snowden's flight \"defies logic\" given his self-stated whistleblower status, and that the US should use all legal options to have him brought to the US. Various tweets are citing Russia's Interfax news agency as saying Snowden was met on the airport tarmac by a Venezuelan diplomat, who took him away in a car. Miriam Elder in Moscow, who is at Sheremetyevo airport, has tweeted this. Dominic Rushe sends this statement from a US department of justice spokeswoman: As we stated yesterday, the United States had contacted authorities in Hong Kong to seek the extradition of Mr Snowden, based on the criminal complaint filed in the Eastern District of Virginia, and in accordance with the US-Hong Kong agreement for the surrender of fugitive offenders. We have been informed by the Hong Kong authorities Mr Snowden has departed for a third country. We will continue to discuss this matter with Hong Kong and pursue relevant law enforcement cooperation with other countries where Mr Snowden may be attempting to travel. WikiLeaks has issued a brief profile of Sarah Harrison, the WikiLeaks staffer believed to have flown with Snowden. The arrival of Snowden's plane has been confirmed by Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport. The flight touched down at 5.03pm local time (2.03pm BST). Snowden's flight from Hong Kong has touched down in Moscow, according to the New York Times correspondent in the city. My colleague Dominic Rushe in New York has been speaking to a US extradition expert: Douglas McNabb, founder of McNabb Associates, a law firm that specialises in extradition cases, points out that the US has extradition treaties with both Venezuela and Cuba but not Russia. Cuba's treaties date back to 1904 and 1905 and Venezuela's to 1922 and 1923. \"There are old but valid treaties with both Venezuela and Cuba. But the US doesn't exactly have great international relations with either of those countries. In any of these countries, Russia included, politics is going to play a large part. This case is going to be 10% legal and 90% politics,\" he said. Snowden's flight from Hong Kong is scheduled to arrive at terminal F of Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport in the next few minutes, according to live airport arrivals information. A thought from Jon Williams, foreign editor at ABC News. The handy flight tracker shows Snowden's plane is within reach of Moscow. It should land in about 45 minutes or so. But of course, if he is visa-less and awaiting an onward flight to Havana the 30-year-old will then be a little more visible than he is currently on the plane. Reuters is quoting a source at Aeroflot saying Snowden is, as predicted, booked on a Moscow to Havana flight on Monday, and \"plans to go to Venezuela\". WikiLeaks has now issued this statement, which largely echoes what Assange said: Mr Edward Snowden, the American whistleblower who exposed evidence of a global surveillance regime conducted by US and UK intelligence agencies, has left Hong Kong legally. He is bound for a democratic nation via a safe route for the purposes of asylum, and is being escorted by diplomats and legal advisors from WikiLeaks. Mr Snowden requested that WikiLeaks use its legal expertise and experience to secure his safety. Once Mr Snowden arrives at his final destination his request will be formally processed. Assuming Assange's comments, below, are correct \u2013 and there is some evidence pointing to a WikiLeaks involvement \u2013 then talk of a \"democratic country\" would appear to lean more towards Venezuela as an eventual destination rather than Cuba. But it's fair to say we simply don't know yet. Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, has been speaking about Snowden's departure from his own exile, inside the Ecuadorean embassy in London. Speaking to the Sydney Morning Herald, Assange said WikiLeaks had arranged Snowden's passage to a \"democratic country\" that he refused to name. He said: He is expected to land in Moscow at 5pm, local time and will be met by diplomats from the country that will be his ultimate destination. Diplomats from that country will accompany him on a further flight to his destination... Owing to WikiLeaks' own circumstances, we have developed significant expertise in international asylum and extradition law, associated diplomacy and the practicalities in these matters. I have great personal sympathy for Ed Snowden's position. WikiLeaks absolutely supports his decision to blow the whistle on the mass surveillance of the world's population by the US government. It's time for a brief precis of where we are with this fast-moving story: \u2022 Edward Snowden, the US National Security Agency contractor who revealed secrets of the extent and scale of American surveillance and hacking activities to the Guardian, has left Hong Kong, according to the territory's government. A Hong Kong government statement said Snowden left \"of his own accord for a third country through a lawful and normal channel\". The US had filed for an arrest warrant, but the documents sent by Washington did not fully meet legal requirements, the statement added. \u2022 The 30-year-old is widely reported to be on an Aeroflot flight to Moscow, which is due to land in about 90 minutes. Sources with the airline say he is booked on the plane with someone called Harrison, believed to be Sarah Harrison, a WikiLeaks staffer. \u2022 WikiLeaks has claimed in tweets it \"assisted Mr Snowden's political asylum in a democratic country\" and that its \"legal advisers\" are with him. \u2022 Snowden is reportedly heading to an unknown destination after Moscow. Russian news agencies say he is booked on an onward flight on Monday to Havana, with one report saying he will then travel from Cuba to Caracas in Venezuela. The agencies say Snowden does not have a Russian visa. \u2022 Snowden's departure came on the same day the South China Morning Post carried detailed reports of claims from him about US actions against China, including allegations of the hacking of phone text messages. \u2022 The US is likely to be angered by Hong Kong's decision to let Snowden leave. Some politicians in the territory say the decision has saved Hong Kong what could have been a long and anguished debate over whether to extradite him. Beijing has yet to comment on the news. It's worth noting that the Moscow-based English language news channel Russia Today has been claiming for the past hour that Snowden is already in Moscow. It appears to be alone in saying this. The Moscow correspondent for ABC News makes this interesting point. It was sent after ABC said it had confirmed Snowden and WikiLeaks staffer Sarah Harrison were booked on an Aeroflot flight to Cuba on Monday. Tania Branigan emails in to say that the ministry of foreign affairs in Beijing is, as yet, not commenting on the departure of Snowden. A tweeted update from Miriam Elder in Moscow. Tania Branigan has been speaking to another politician in Hong Kong, who says Snowden's departure has a lot to recommend it for both the territory and Beijing: Ronny Tong Ka-wah, a barrister and legislator for the pro-democracy Civic Party, said: \"From Beijing's point of view it is probably the most acceptable solution. If Beijing was to refuse to surrender Snowden that might harm Sino-US relations. On the other hand, if Beijing was to allow Snowden to surrender, it might well be subject to criticism both here in Hong Kong and in European countries making noises about the conduct of the US. The additional issue is that if it was put through the judicial process, it would be difficult to predict the outcome.\" Hong Kong is part of China but governed under the \"one country, two systems\" framework, which gives it considerable autonomy but makes it clear that Beijing has authority on matters of foreign relations. The statement on Snowden's departure came from the Hong Kong government and Tong said he doubted Beijing would want to be publicly involved, adding: \"It's far better to stay behind the scenes and allow Hong Kong to appear to be dealing with it.\" The New York Times has an interesting quote from the veteran Hong Kong politician Regina Ip, arguing that by letting Snowden slip out the territory's government has saved itself a long and difficult debate on whether to extradite him: I think your (the US) government will be upset for a while, but I hope that they will shrug it off, because our government acted in accordance with the law. Our government officials can breathe a sigh of relief. As an indicator of Beijing's possible attitude to the decision of Hong Kong in allowing Snowden to leave, this commentary piece today from the official Xinhua news agency is interesting. It talks of Snowden's latest revelations of US hacking against China as \"clearly troubling\", adding: They demonstrate that the United States, which has long been trying to play innocent as a victim of cyber attacks, has turned out to be the biggest villain in our age. At the moment, Washington is busy with a legal process of extraditing whistleblower Snowden. But for other countries, Washington should come clean about its record first. It owes too an explanation to China and other countries it has allegedly spied on. It has to share with the world the range, extent and intent of its clandestine hacking programs. As a reminder of the issues at stake here, this is Edward Snowden's video interview with the Guardian from earlier this month in which he describes the motivations for his actions. Here, Snowden answered questions from readers. Miriam Elder notes that some Russian MPs have been taking to Twitter to call on their government to offer Snowden asylum: Alexey Pushkov, the head of the Duma's international affairs committee said: \"It's already being said that an offer of asylum to Snowden from us would be 'a Cold War act'. But spying in wigs is the norm, so asylum isn't an act,\" he said referring to the Kremlin's recent expulsion of a suspected US spy. Robert Shlegel, another MP, tweeted: \"Mr. Snowden stay in Russia!\" with a smiley face emoticon. He later added: \"If Snowden will be in transit in Russia for nearly 24h it would be right to offer him political asylum during that time.\" For weeks only a handful of people have known Edward Snowden's location. For the next three hours at least we all do \u2013 you can follow the progress of Aeroflot SU213 live, via this website. He's just passed slightly north of Omsk. More from Tania Branigan in Hong Kong: Barrister Robert Tibbo and solicitor Jonathan Man have just said they have been acting for Snowden during his stay in Hong Kong. Tibbo confirmed: \"He departed Hong Kong through legal means, through immigration channels. We have no comment on his specific departure details at this time.\" It's possible Cuba could also be a staging point, according to Russian news agencies. While both Interfax and Itar-Tass are now saying Snowden is booked on a Monday flight from Moscow to Havana, the latter is also citing an unnamed source as saying the American will then go on from Havana to Caracas in Venezuela. If Snowden does end up in Cuba he will, of course, be in a deeply paradoxical position for a whistleblower and advocate of open information. Cuba maintains significant repression against independent journalists, along with government opponents and right activists. It's also not at all that keen on free internet access. Here's what the Amnesty International 2013 report has to say: Peaceful demonstrators, independent journalists and human rights activists were routinely detained for exercising their rights to freedom of expression, association and assembly. Many were detained and others were subjected to acts of repudiation by government supporters... The authorities adopted a range of measures to prevent activists reporting on human rights including surrounding the homes of activists and disconnecting phones. Organisations whose activities had been tolerated by the authorities in the past, such as the Cuban Commission on Human Rights and National Reconciliation, were targeted. Independent journalists reporting on dissidents' activities were detained. The government continued to exert control over all media, while access to information on the internet remained challenging due to technical limitations and restrictions on content. This comes in from Tania Branigan in Hong Kong: Simon Young, director of the Centre for Comparative and Public Law at the University of Hong Kong, described the news of Snowden's departure as \"a shocker\". He said: \"The US government will be irate with their Hong Kong counterparts [and] may even question whether the Hong Kong government was acting in good faith pursuant to their treaty obligations. I have no doubt that they were, and it is quite common for government lawyers to seek more information on surrender or mutual legal assistance requests before local process can begin. \"But I'm surprised here. Under the Foreign Offenders Ordinance, it is a very low threshold test to get the provisional warrant in place. Only two requirements are needed; evidence that the person is in HK (no doubt here) and that the person is wanted for prosecution in the US (again, another no brainer). The US government will wonder why the Hong Kong government feels the surrender paperwork needs to be fully in place before the provisional warrant can be obtained.\" He added: \"It's no surprise that Snowden left. His situation would have changed drastically with the issue of the warrant. From his 'safe place' he would have been detained in prison awaiting the completion of both his surrender and asylum proceedings. That would have been a harsh existence if he was to fight it out and [with] no certainty that he would not be surrendered.\" Amid the fast-moving speculation about Snowden's eventual destination, it's worth considering again the decision of Hong Kong's government to let the whistleblower go despite the US formally requesting his arrest. Since Snowden announced his presence in Hong Kong there has been lengthy speculation about whether the Chinese territory would simply bow to American demands. It did not: Hong Kong officials decreed the US request did not contain enough information, and thus Snowden could leave freely. That's a fairly significant step by the former British colony, and will annoy Washington. Going back to our 10.18am update, which said Snowden was travelling with someone called Harrison, it's worth noting that WikiLeaks has a staff member called Sarah Harrison. This would tie in with the WikiLeaks tweets. Interfax, the Russian news agency, is saying Snowden is set to fly on to Cuba. It's citing Aeroflot sources as saying there is a ticket in the American's name for a Moscow to Cuba flight, Reuters reports. Today's South China Morning Post also has further revelations from Snowden about what he describes as large scale US espionage and data-gathering operations against mainland China. The allegations include: \u2022 Extensive hacking into private phone text messages in China. \u2022 Attacks on the main servers at China's prestigious Tsinghua University. \u2022 Hacking computers at the Hong Kong offices of Pacnet, a company which operates the region's biggest network of undersea fibre optic cables. WikiLeaks has tweeted again, saying Snowden is on the flight \"accompanied by WikiLeaks legal advisers\". Presumably one of these is called Harrison. Miriam Elder in Moscow has been talking to a spokesman for Vladimir Putin, Dmitry Peskov. He says: I don't [know if he's planning to stay in Moscow]. I heard about his potential arrival from the press. I know nothing. Asked whether Russia itself would consider an asylum request: Every application is being considered so it's standard procedure... We are not tracing his movements and I know nothing. The New York Times has managed to speak to an Aeroflot reservations agent who said Snowden's ticket to Moscow was one-way and didn't include any onward travel. Snowden was travelling with one other person, called Harrison, the agent said. So now to the unanswered question: where from Moscow? The South China Morning Post is very confident Snowden is heading to another destination. The obvious initial bet would be Iceland, which has reportedly already received an informal approach as to whether it would accept an asylum application from him. Other possible destinations touted so far include Ecuador \u2013 which would tie in with a WikiLeaks link, given Julian Assange's year-long sojourn inside the Ecuadorean embassy in London \u2013 and even Havana. But it's safe to say we don't know yet. This is the full Hong Kong government statement on Snowden's departure. HKSAR stands for Hong Kong Special Autonomous Region, the territory's somewhat cumbersome official name. The HKSAR Government today (June 23) issued the following statement on Mr Edward Snowden: Mr Edward Snowden left Hong Kong today (June 23) on his own accord for a third country through a lawful and normal channel. The US Government earlier on made a request to the HKSAR Government for the issue of a provisional warrant of arrest against Mr Snowden. Since the documents provided by the US Government did not fully comply with the legal requirements under Hong Kong law, the HKSAR Government has requested the US Government to provide additional information so that the Department of Justice could consider whether the US Government's request can meet the relevant legal conditions. As the HKSAR Government has yet to have sufficient information to process the request for provisional warrant of arrest, there is no legal basis to restrict Mr Snowden from leaving Hong Kong. The HKSAR Government has already informed the US Government of Mr Snowden's departure. Meanwhile, the HKSAR Government has formally written to the US Government requesting clarification on earlier reports about the hacking of computer systems in Hong Kong by US government agencies. The HKSAR Government will continue to follow up on the matter so as to protect the legal rights of the people of Hong Kong. Ends/Sunday, June 23, 2013 Issued at HKT 16:05 WikiLeaks has issued a tweet claiming it \"assisted\" Snowden to leave Hong Kong and get \"political asylum in a democratic country\". Snowden faces espionage charges in connection with the revelations he passed to the Guardian based on his work as a contractor with the US National Security Agency (NSA). He is charged with theft of government property, unauthorised communication of national defence information and wilful communication of classified communications intelligence information to an unauthorised person, according to court documents. So why was he able to leave Hong Kong? Seemingly because the US arrest documents were not detailed enough for the Chinese territory. The Hong Kong government said in a statement on Sunday that while US authorities issued a provisional arrest warrant against Snowden, the documents \"did not fully comply with the legal requirements under Hong Kong law\". Hong Kong's government asked the US for more information, but before that happened there was no legal reason to stop Snowden leaving the territory. Edward Snowden has left Hong Kong: the NSA whistleblower, now sought by US authorities on espionage charges, departed the Chinese territory by commercial airliner on Sunday morning local time and is en route to Moscow, the South China Morning Post reported. Russia will not be his eventual destination, the report said, though it is not known where Snowden will eventually end up. The paper quoted Hong Kong's government as saying the 30-year-old left \"of his own accord for a third country through a lawful and normal channel\". Snowden is reported to be on Aeroflot flight SU23, scheduled to arrive in Moscow at 5.15pm local time (2.15pm BST). Here's our initial report on the story, by Tania Branigan in Hong Kong.",
  "title": "Edward Snowden asks for asylum in Ecuador - as it happened",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/hong-kong",
    "world/surveillance",
    "world/russia",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "world/ecuador"
  ],
  "lead": "The NSA whistleblower left Hong Kong on an Aeroflot flight to Moscow, two days after the US charged him with espionage, before applying for asylum in Ecuador",
  "id": "global/2013/jun/23/edward-snowden-leaves-hong-kong-moscow-live",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}