{
  "content": "As the Countess of Wessex flew out of Britain on an official visit to the Middle East at the weekend, it was in the certain knowledge that her next encounter with a sheikh would not have such catastrophic results as her last. For, despite the best efforts of Buckingham Palace, Prince Edward's wife was embroiled in controversy over toe-curlingly embarrassing remarks about other royals and politicians that she is alleged to have made to an investigative reporter posing as a Middle Eastern businessman. The countess was alleged to have described the prime minister as \"too presidential\" and Cherie Blair as \"horrid, absolutely horrid, horrid, horrid\". William Hague was said to be \"deformed\". She was said to have referred to the Queen as \"the old dear\" and to have claimed that Prince Charles and Camilla Parker-Bowles would marry after \"the old lady\" - the Queen Mother - dies. Buckingham Palace warned of \"wholesale inaccuracies\" in the story. \"We suggest that no serious journalist gives this story the time of day,\" it said, apparently more in hope than expectation. Indeed, the countess, formerly Sophie Rhys-Jones, appeared to give the reports credence by writing to the Blairs and to the Tory leader last week to apologise for what she had said. Compounding the embarrassment was the fact that she was speaking in her capacity as a director of her private public relations company, R-JH, which she set up in 1997, two years before she married the prince. As an experienced PR executive, the countess might have been expected to be more discreet. Officials and other PR practitioners described her as naive, and it was clear that she had fallen for the oldest trick in the book: a tabloid sting. What made the tale even more bizarre, however, was that it did not appear in the publication which obtained the original story. The News of the World published an anodyne, authorised interview with the countess, but the explosive material, obtained by its undercover reporter Mazher Mahmood, was splashed across its principal rivals, the Mail on Sunday and the Sunday Mirror. The Mail suggested that the Queen was outraged by the alleged remarks, and that Prince Edward was \"absolutely furious\" with his wife for making them. The tale appeared under the banner headline: \"Queen's Outrage at Sophie Insults\". A similar story appeared in the Mirror. Sexuality The News of the World, apparently as a reward for its discretion, had to make do with a formal interview at Buckingham Palace by the countess last week in which the she was obliged to answer questions about the sexuality of her husband and her difficulty in conceiving children. Palace officials thought that the fluffy revelations would do the job. But they reckoned without the wrath of the PR guru, Max Clifford. For it was Clifford who had first set the story in chain after an employee of R-JH had approached him with concerns about the way Sophie Wessex (as she prefers to be professionally known) was running her business. Clifford was furious that the NoW had been cowed into burying the story. Even though the countess had secured an injunction preventing her employee from discussing her business, he is understood to believe that the paper was not legally prevented from running any comments made by the countess, which Mahmood had taped. However, it is thought that the NoW editor, Rebekah Wade, decided not to run the original story on legal advice. Determined to see the story in print, Clifford tipped off the Mail and the Mirror. It emerged yesterday that Mahmood - who appears to possess an entire wardrobe of Arab get-ups - had met the countess three times over champagne at the Dorchester Hotel. She had attended the meetings with her business partner, Murray Harkin, but her police bodyguard had remained outside the room. R-JH has a number of blue-chip clients including the Lanesborough Hotel, JCB and the British Luxury Council and last year had a turnover of more than \u00a3660,000. As chairman, the countess's stake in the company was estimated by the Mail on Sunday as being worth \u00a3900,000 and she was said to have received a salary last year of \u00a347,763 with an additional \u00a318,000 bonus. It would have been plausible that a Middle Eastern businessman would have wanted to engage her firm - and although Sophie Wessex has insisted in public that she is sensitive to her relationship to the royal family, the fact of her position as wife of the Queen's youngest son would have been attractive. It was only when the NoW contacted the palace with details of what the countess is alleged to have said that horror of the situation dawned. The countess alerted the press complaints commission, and her lawyers obtained the injunction against her employee at R-JH. Press chiefs at the palace, which has recently made something of a practice of appeasing potential tabloid tormenters, offered the exclusive interview to the NoW. But the strategy was a disaster: the countess was humiliated in the Sunday papers twice over. In an attempt to regain the upper hand, the palace issued a strong statement in which it insisted that none of the quotes attributed to the countess by the Mail on Sunday was true. \"The story is riddled with inaccuracies and fictions ... the claim that the Countess has deeply upset the Queen is untrue and to run a speculative story under that headline is particularly offensive. Suggestions that she was in any way disrespectful to the Queen or the Queen Mother are untrue. \"The claim that the countess told the bogus sheikh that Prince Charles and Camilla Parker-Bowles would marry is untrue. The suggestion that her marriage is imperilled or that Prince Edward is furious with her are untrue. The remarks attributed to the Countess about political figures are selective, distorted and in several cases flatly untrue. Not one of the quotes in the Mail on Sunday is accurate.\" The palace declined to say which parts of her remarks might have been accurate, even if later regretted. The royal family, it was said yesterday, was entirely supportive of her. A member of the royal family, who is trying to pursue her own career, is obviously vulnerable to set-ups such as this, and all members of the royal family risk tittle-tattle, misinformations and from time to time wholesale inaccuracy.\" Meanwhile palace insiders said there was no public interest defence in persuading the countess to speak about her views of prominent figures. \"This is not like the Guardian exposing the activities of Neil Hamilton or Jonathan Aitken,\" one said. The couple, who live at Bagshot Park in Surrey, do not receive a stipend from the civil list but the prince is given at least \u00a3140,000 a year by his mother as an allowance. When Sophie Rhys-Jones, 36, first emerged as the fiancee of the Queen's youngest son, it was said that her PR experience would stand her in good stead. But, whatever she may have said, her colleagues in the business were united in their opinion yesterday that her judgment had been seriously undermined.",
  "title": "The countess and a tabloid sting",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Sophie Wessex is humiliated as papers reveal allegedly embarrassing remarks about the royals and politicians.",
  "id": "media/2001/apr/02/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}