{
  "content": "These days Dogg, the famous data detective, is much in demand on the dinner party circuit. He is happy to accept, for as a master of disguise he enjoys this game of social charades. But how does the Dogg sing for his supper on these occasions? What manner of tales does he weave? The art of conversation is not lost on Dogg, and should he want to want to get things really humming, he just tells his co-diners that he knows every fact about them. Before the dinner he has logged onto databases that hold files on each fellow diner. He can start with a simple check on their credit references, or just enter their name into \"Google\" and see what turns up. If his suspicions are aroused Dogg can move onto the more sophisticated searches, for bank account details and employment records. Some call it hacking but the Dogg remains unmoved by labels. Trust me this is relatively easy stuff. Most people are on at least 200 databases, and that's without the links. Pretty soon, Dogg can know everything from their credit card transactions to phone calls. And when he gives examples of some of the intimate details which appear on his co-diners' files, like their sexual or political orientation, there is much spluttering over the cold gazpacho. \"That's outrageous,\" they cry. \"Shouldn't something be done to stop this? \"I thought that was illegal.\" Legal or not, he replies, it is being done. Welcome to the end of privacy. Now it always surprises the Dogg just how twitchy his co-diners get about the subject of privacy. They are suffer chronic social poise dysfunction at the prospect that someone else can gain access to their private lives; that all their transactions are being held and watched on databases in air-conditioned Data Centres down the M4 corridor. It's the new taboo. So to play upon their emotions, the Dogg will probe his subjects a little. Most will start off by telling him they're worried about Big Brother knowing everything about them - that's why privacy is so important. They blame the Thought Police. But that's a con'. They're not really worried about Big Brother. Deep down they know that unless they're a terrorist or a money launderer or dealing in crack, Big Brother isn't going to be too interested in their normal little lives. So let's forget the conspiracy theories. The answer the Dogg has come to is that people sense that privacy is intimately involved in identity. Losing privacy affects their sense of self. Data protection is about self protection. You see it's not simply that my fellow diners at parties are concerned to protect themselves from others knowing about them, it is more about protecting their whole sense of who they are. In the past a guest could attend a dinner party safe in the assumption that he or she was in charge of their own narrative; he had more data about himself than anyone or anything else. This meant two things. First he could arrange the facts, edit and deploy them to suit his purposes. When seated next to a potential new mate for the first time, he could impress them by the size of his Jaguar parked outside, without telling them he didn't actually own the vehicle, it was leased to the company he works for and his contract for employment is up in three days time. Or like the attractive blonde (in marketing) seated on the Dogg's right, who when she went for an interview with a new employer, could claim that the reason she had left her last job was a difference of opinion about the future direction of the company, rather than letting on about that unseemly incident at the photocopier. In short, owning your own narrative keeps you in control of your self, by manipulating how others see you. The second issue is that, in the privacy world, a diner knew more about his or her self, their \"real self\" than anyone else. They know the true person inside, the secret internal diner. This is the old internal/external argument. If a diner were master of the inner story and there weren't enough external facts to disprove it, they could live on with that internal story intact. So for instance, when the media exec' seated opposite says that he is very close to his parents, he is not prepared for that story to be challenged. But now, the Dogg can tell from the data on file that he hasn't called his parents in months, nor have they called him, and that he hasn't been up to Lancashire, where they live, for the past 6 years. Close but not too close, huh? The point here is that in the post-privacy world things can be measured that were never measured before: soft things like emotions and likes and dislikes, affinities and preferences. And the Dogg would say that this sort of data is more real than the inner lies which people kid themselves with. At least data is pegged to facts. Little by little, all of this adds up to a gruesome realisation, my co-diners. A guest needs his secrets. Secret \"facts\" about himself which shore up his sense of who he is. Secrets keep the internal story alive. And for the vivacious blonde (in marketing) on the Dogg's right, they make it possible for her to believe that deep down, she's one of the good guys. But when all the facts are known about her, the biggest shock is not that other people will think differently about her, but that she will have to think differently about herself. Now there's a dinner party conversation stopper. At this point the host will often cheerfully chip in: \"Any more wine, Dogg?\" Comes the reply, \"Don't mind if I do.\" Arthur C. Dogg, data detective, is the creation of Adam Lury and Steve Gibson, and the narrator of their novel, Dangerous Data by Lury.Gibson, published by Transworld",
  "title": "Dangerous data - the death of privacy",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Every purchase we make is an electronic confession. Does the post-privacy era make us vulnerable to a big brother state - or are the most troubling consequences much closer to home?",
  "id": "technology/2001/aug/12/internet.comment",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}