{
  "content": "Some of the biggest internet companies in the world, including LinkedIn, Facebook and eBay, are thought to be queuing up to strike fresh deals with HM Revenue &amp; Customs after Google last week agreed a \u00a3130m settlement of past tax bills. Google's deal with HMRC in effect gives the green light for the search group to continue to book almost all of its $6.5bn (\u00a34.56bn) UK sales through Ireland. Meanwhile, its subsidiary Google UK, which employs about 2,000 staff, will only be required to pay a little bit more tax to HMRC. Latest published accounts show Google UK paid just \u00a321m in tax for 2013. Many technology companies had feared the UK's introduction last year of a so-called diverted profits tax would force them to radically restructure their European businesses, and pay more tax. Last May, Amazon chose to end its practice of booking UK sales in Luxembourg, becoming the first internet firm to abandon the controversial arrangement. But the Google deal signals that most technology firms are now likely to contine to route UK sales overseas as part of their tax planning without serious challenge. Companies such as LinkedIn, Facebook and eBay have large operations in the UK, employing hundreds of workers. But, like Google, these multinationals have for years been booking revenues from British customers through subsidiaries in other countries. As a result, their UK business reports lower earnings and receives a lower tax bill. Two years ago, George Osborne launched an attack on businesses using such structures. \"Some technology companies go to extraordinary lengths to pay little or no tax here,\" the chancellor said. \"We will put a stop to it.\" The result was the diverted profits tax, which promised punitive tax rates for those multinationals directing UK business to other countries in an attempt to lower their tax bills. On Monday, Osborne claimed the latest settlement with Google was a \"major success\" that was \"thanks to the action that this government has taken\". In private, however, Google confirmed HMRC's long-running investigation into its tax affairs had been started under Labour in 2009. The \u00a3130m settlement covers liabilities dating back as far as 2005, with the majority relating to a period before Osborne's diverted profits tax came into force. A spokesperson for Google said: \"After a six-year audit by the tax authority we are paying the amount of tax that HMRC agrees we should pay. \"Governments make tax law, the tax authorities enforce the law and Google complies with the law.\" But critics said the settlement was a \"sweetheart deal\" and not sufficiently transparent. \"These sort of ad hoc, under-the-counter deals between the government and large companies tend to undermine wider initiatives that seek to harmonise tax practices at the global level,\" said Crawford Spence, professor of accounting at Warwick Business School. Meanwhile, international tax reforms agreed last year by the G20 also look to stamp out the kind of structure Google has to route its sales from UK customers through Ireland. These are yet to be written into law. Last year LinkedIn's annual report warned investors that tax reforms designed to stop multinational businesses from diverting profits away from the UK could cause LinkedIn's tax bill to jump. Those expected to benefit following the Google deal include: \u2022 LinkedIn, which has a large business in the UK employing almost 200 people. Its British arm paid only \u00a3532,000 in tax for 2014 and almost all of LinkedIn's UK sales were booked in the group's Irish subsidiary. Facebook, which has a 360-strong UK workforce. The British company paid tax of just \u00a34,327 in 2014. The lion's share of revenues from British advertisers were booked by an Irish company. eBay, which makes UK sales of \u00a318.5bn from its auction website, employs 440 people in a British company \u2013 though many of these work overseas. The UK company paid tax of \u00a32.1m for 2014.",
  "title": "Google settlement clears way for tech giants to strike deals with HMRC",
  "lead": "Internet companies including LinkedIn, Facebook and eBay likely to continue practice of booking UK revenues overseas",
  "tags": [
    "politics/taxandspending",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/linkedin",
    "technology/ebay",
    "politics/georgeosborne"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "politics/2016/jan/25/google-tax-deal-hmrc-linkedin-facebook-ebay",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}