{
  "content": "The morning of the Oxford Social Media Convention focused on the impact of social media. Especially interesting were the statements on the panel 'Breaking news: the changing relationships between blogs and mainstream media'. Richard Sambrook, the director of the BBC Global News Division, said that the impact of social media was overestimated in the short term and underestimated in long term. Mainstream media are adopting social media especially with blogging and twitter, he admited, but nobody discusses the effects on the long term. But what is the long term? One thing he is sure of is that new organisations don't own the news anymore. There is a transformation for the journalist from being the gatekeeper of information to sharing it in a public space. Therefore citizen journalism is something, Sambrook added, that has to be taken into account. However, he doesn't see the internet as a place where news come from \u2013 although Sky News has a Twitter correspondent researching the micro-blogging platform. What he could see evolving though, was a new objectivity. Objectivity, he then pointed out, had always been an idea important for the news. For him it was once designed to deliver journalism that people can trust. But in the new media age transparency is what delivers trust. He stressed that news today still has to be accurate and fair, but it is as important for the readers, listeners and viewers to see how the news is produced, where the information comes from, and how it works. The emergence of news is as important, as the delivering of the news itself. Information is not journalism, he explained further. You get a lot of things, when you open up Twitter in the morning, but not journalism. Journalism needs discipline, analysis, explanation and context, he pointed out, and therefore for him it is still a profession. The value that gets added with journalism is judgment, analysis and explanation - and that makes the difference. So journalism will stay - he was optimistic about that. However, journalists must understand one rule: if you believe you are in competition with the internet, find your way out. Collaboration, openness and link culture are rules, you can't deny at the moment, he said. John Kelly, a columnist for the Washington Post, who has published a report on the rise, challenges and value of citizen journalism for the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism explained further, saying that today the Huffington Post competes with the Washington Post not in terms of journalism, but in terms of its readers. Social media for him are not only important for citizen journalism, but for reaching out to the readers as well. Mainstream media are exploring the use of social media to drive traffic; already 8% of the Daily Telegraph web traffic comes from social media. The Washington Post is rather slow with putting the work of citizen journalists in the paper, Kelly reported. There were only a few crowdsourcing projects and they were presented as special features. The section it is mostly used is sports, where they aggregate Twitter feeds of American Football players and display it. The commentary editor of Reuters, Jonathan Ford, finally explained that it is quite hard for a news agency such as Reuters to take social media into account. And social media has developed in the financial sphere, too. Reuters, Kelly pointed out further, is interested in blogging to set up a community offering specific trade news and information - because in the financial community, social media has started to play a role. People such as the economy expert Paul Krugman or bankers who had already made it, he said, started to shared knowledge with the public and pulled them into a financial debate to regain trust. On Twitter this remark was live-commented by drgrahamwilson with the tweet: \"Bankers using blogs to regain trust in themselves. In whose mind?\"",
  "title": "How social networking is changing journalism",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "education/oxforduniversity",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/national-newspapers"
  ],
  "lead": "A conference in Oxford explores the interaction between the internet and the news industry",
  "id": "media/pda/2009/sep/18/oxford-social-media-convention-2009-journalism-blogs",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}