{
  "content": "What has happened? Passwords for LinkedIn and dating site eHarmony have been published on a Russian hacker's website. The passwords are encrypted, but hackers are being invited to help decipher them. More than 6m LinkedIn passwords and about 1.5m eHarmony passwords have reportedly been published. Does this mean my account has been hacked? Not necessarily. It is not clear whether any accounts have actually been broken into, only that the passwords have been published \u2013 but it is clear not all passwords have been compromised. LinkedIn has said it will inform those account holders who do have passwords on the list, and that these people will currently be unable to log in to the site. Rather than wait for an email it would be wise to check yours sooner rather than later. You can also check by typing it into this website. What will the email say? LinkedIn says it will send two emails: one explaining how you can reset your password and one explaining what has happened. The emails will not include links. It is vital to remember this because there are apparently already phishing emails being sent to people by fraudsters. What else do I need to know? When setting your new password, choose one that is different from passwords for other websites you use. Neil Munroe, chair of the Identity Fraud Communications Awareness Group, says: \"Many people will initially think it's not a big concern because they don't use LinkedIn for financial transactions. But the reality is that often they use the same username and password for many of their other online activities as they do for LinkedIn.\" You would also be wise to avoid any of the 10 worst passwords published last year \u2013 these are essentially the most common passwords which hackers are bound to try. You may also want to avoid ihatemyjob or any of the others on this list Buzzfeed found among the LinkedIn passwords. They've been used before and, aside from anything else, are slightly depressing. LinkedIn has some more information on passwords and security on its blog. Google also has tips on choosing a strong password.",
  "title": "LinkedIn hacking: a timely internet security reminder",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "money/work-and-careers",
    "money/job-hunting",
    "money/money",
    "technology/linkedin",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/data-computer-security"
  ],
  "lead": "With more than 6m LinkedIn passwords published online, account holders are being urged to check their security settings",
  "id": "money/work-blog/2012/jun/07/linkedin-hacking-internet-security",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}