{
  "content": "One moment we're in Paris, watching a reconstruction of events 10 years ago. Next moment, home in Britain, Prince William and Kate experience more hot pursuit from the paparazzi. There's an obvious emotional link - and equally obvious further debate about what should be done. Does Wills take a leaf out of Caroline of Monaco's book and sue? Should Gordon's new vision include a Princely Pap Pack Protection Act? Answer: neither. Toeing a Press Complaints Commission line, Fleet Street doesn't use snoop-and-stalk snaps; and when something misses that mark, editors retreat. Photographers peddle their wares to publications abroad that aren't answerable to the PCC. It would be illogical, and counterproductive, to saddle UK picture editors with restrictions they can do nothing about. Of course, there's a job to do preaching the case for restraint further afield. Summon Richard Desmond or Rupert Murdoch. But restraint is a two-way street. When the Mail on Sunday editor says that Prince Harry, blotto outside a nightclub, is news, he has a point. William inside Boujis with his rekindled love? Off limits, because general gawpers wouldn't get past the doorman. Driving home with her afterwards? Ditto: you mustn't condone pursuit. But the rule of thumb says that what Joe Public can see for himself can't and shouldn't be 'private'. And common sense might add that high-profile military officers would be better taking their girlfriend to the movies more often than racing through Mayfair at 2am on another wild chase after fuzzy fame on some Italian newsstand.",
  "title": "Peter Preston: In fact, Your Highness, some places are actually not private",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/business",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world",
    "uk/prince-william",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Peter Preston: Should Prince William take a leaf out of Caroline of Monaco's book and sue the paparazzi?\n",
  "id": "business/2007/oct/14/pressandpublishing.themonarchy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}