{
  "content": "Privacy has shot up the agenda since the Edward Snowden revelations began to be published last year. Then Facebook recently revealed that it has not just snooped on its users, but deliberately manipulated their moods without their express permission. The methodology Facebook used has been universally criticised as unethical and the fact that Facebook published the results with a full explanation of the method used shows it either does not seem to understand its users have been abused, or perhaps does not care. Of course the research was there for a reason \u2013 to give advertisers more faith in Facebook as an advertising medium: the message was that if Facebook gets inside the heads of its users, so can you. I feel certain that Facebook is within its legal rights to conduct such experiments based on the extensive terms and conditions signed away when you join Facebook. But are they within their ethical rights? The backlash would suggest not. This is the problem with the way businesses use and abuse data and privacy. A while back Tim Berners-Lee called for a \"Magna Carta\" for the internet and his concerns were not just about privacy. How about a set of principles \u2013 starting with a privacy charter that would give consumers confidence that when they click \"I agree\" to terms and conditions, they will not have their data abused. For businesses, they would have the confidence to use that data to make their products, apps, whatever, work better by using that consumer data responsibly. The following five statements are a first draft of what a privacy charter could look like. 1) Your data should be safe from hacks and malicious attack We will ensure your data is kept safe and secure from hack and attack. Security of consumer data really ought to be the absolute minimum requirement for any company that expects to be trusted. That we have regular hacks and malicious attacks shows security is not taken as seriously as it should be. Martin Sorrell said during Ad Week that he thought security was a greater issue than privacy. I tend to disagree \u2013 both are important. 2) Be transparent We will explain why we want the data and how we intend to use it. \"It is in brands' interests to say exactly what is done with peoples' data. It's not telling people anything they don't know, and gives brands the chance to brand that,\" explains Will Seymour, senior analyst at The Future Foundation. 3) Take only the data you need We won't over-ask for data. We will only take the data that's relevant for us to run our business. If we need more, we will ask again. \"It should not just be a case of [collecting] all the data possible because you can\u2026 it might not even be relevant. We will collect the minimum amount of data we possibly can. It might be that [we] need more a year down the road of course. But then [we] can ask again,\" says Chris Applegate, senior creative technologist at We Are Social. 4) We will make clear what you can opt in and opt out of There may be excellent reasons why you do not want to share certain data. That's fine. Some data we absolutely need, but we will explain what you can opt out of, so you can make better choices. \"We think the opt-ins and opt-outs should be transparent and not buried away in terms and conditions. If you [were] transparent, perhaps consumers [would be] less worried. 'I'll sign-up because I know what I'm signing up to.' I think the most successful companies are clear about how they use data,\" Mike Lordan, chief of operations, Direct Marketing Association UK. 5) Giving data should not negatively affect the consumer We will not use your data with prejudice. We will always use your data 'blind'. \"We should be able to control how our data is used \u2013 when, how and for what purpose. I'd be happy agreeing to letting my health data be used to help cure cancer, but not to unfairly raise my insurance rates. I should be able to specify the provenance of how my data are used,\" Eric Berlow, founder Vibrant Data Labs and ran Intel's #wethedata project. Let us know your thoughts in the comment section below. Is this enough to give business and consumers the confidence they need? Ed Owen is a freelance journalist specialising in marketing. You can follow him on Twitter @ededowen. Read more stories like this: \u2022 An online Magna Carta: Berners-Lee calls for bill of rights for web \u2022 We are Facebook's digital guinea pigs: the web as a real-life experiment To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled 'Advertisement feature'. Find out more here.",
  "title": "We need a privacy charter to protect consumers and help businesses",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "us-news/nsa",
    "us-news/edward-snowden",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "As privacy continues to be a troublesome issue, could a privacy charter dispel consumer and business worries? Here's a first try",
  "id": "media-network/media-network-blog/2014/aug/18/privacy-charter-internet-security-consumer-magna-carta",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}