{
  "content": "Every three minutes a child is reported missing in the UK; across the EU that number rises to one child every two minutes. In the US, the FBI recorded almost 467,000 missing children in 2014, which is close to one reported every minute. In the US, milk cartons, posters, flyers, meetings and traditional news reports formed the main missing child search channels until 1996, when Dallas-Fort Worth broadcasters teamed up with local police to develop a warning system that interrupted regular programming on television and radio broadcasts, and highway signs. The service, Amber Alert, is used only for the most serious of cases, sending out messages via email, text, traffic signs and digital billboards, as well as through Twitter and Facebook. International non-profit organisation Action Against Abduction long pressed for a similar system in the UK, but it wasn't until 2012, after the abduction of April Jones, that Child Rescue Alert was activated nationally. In 2015, Child Rescue Alert partnered with Facebook to harness the social network's reach. Now, when a missing child case meets certain criteria of seriousness, law enforcement agencies can issue geo-targeted posts, containing a photo and description, to appear in the newsfeeds of Facebook users in the area where the child is believed to be. \"All over the world, we've seen communities rallying together in times of need, using Facebook to spread the word \u2013 and these alerts will make that quicker and help to reach more people than ever before,\" said Emily Vacher, trust and safety manager at Facebook at the September launch. \"Time is often a crucial element when locating vulnerable missing people who are at risk to themselves or to the public,\" says Metropolitan Police commander Alison Newcomb. \"The use of social media supports our investigations and appeals and has achieved great results, some of which simply could not have happened through traditional communication channels.\" Newcomb says the Met operates more than 400 Twitter accounts, but also works closely with other agencies. \"One of the many reasons that the police come to us to help with publicity is that we have this wide network on Twitter and Facebook,\" says Polly Balsom, communications manager at Missing People. Gavin Portnoy, head of digital media at the National Center for Missing &amp; Exploited Children, which makes active use of Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram and Snapchat, has proof of the power of sharing. In 2015 the charity created a video appeal featuring imagery of a missing girl and the person they suspected had kidnapped her. The video was shared widely and a woman spotted them. \"People feel empowered to make a difference; it's the opportunity to do something,\" he says. Another example is the case of Bella Bond, a three-year-old girl whose body was washed up on the shores near Boston, US. Her identity was confirmed following an extensive social media campaign in which a computer-generated composite image was estimated to have reached 47 million people on Facebook. \"It was definitely one of those cases where we can say with great confidence that because it went viral and because as many people interacted with it, it got in front of the eyes of the right person who said 'Oh my goodness, I know that girl',\" Portnoy says. Although social media has provided police and other agencies with extended publicity tools, those same tools can also put children at risk. In Sweden, for example, a man got thousands of people to share his unofficial Facebook appeal for his missing children, but the children were living with their mother who was understood to be under protection with a new identity after leaving the man. Geoff Newiss, director of research at Action Against Abduction, says that when it comes to searching for children in abduction cases, which can be more complex than missing child cases, social media has been more of a good addition than a game changer. \"There is certainly an increase in cases where the grooming is facilitated by online contact, so in that sense technology provides risks,\" he says, adding that teachers need more resources to educate children about this, and that the old \"stranger danger\" advice needs to be updated. Portnoy, however, says that while he recognises that social media is by no means a perfect tool, its benefits should be acknowledged. \"[It] is another really positive tool that's in the arsenal of the public, of law enforcement, of non-profits like us that are trying to help.\"",
  "title": "How Facebook and Twitter changed missing child searches",
  "lead": "Every second counts when a child disappears and social media sites can help speed up investigations",
  "tags": [
    "sustainable-business/sustainable-business",
    "society/childprotection",
    "media-network/media-network",
    "society/children",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "society/charities",
    "society/society",
    "business/financial-sector",
    "business/business",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "sustainable-business/2016/jan/27/facebook-twitter-missing-child-searches-social-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}