{
  "content": "My Google search for \"Michael Fertik\" returns a page of uncommon order and serenity, like one of those Japanese gardens where the gravel has been diligently raked into perfect swirls. The first result is his personal website, then Wikipedia, Twitter and LinkedIn, followed by a couple of prestigious publications he contributes to (Bloomberg Businessweek, Forbes) and the Amazon page for his books. We learn instantly that Fertik is 36 years old, an American internet entrepreneur who is the founder and CEO of reputation.com. Photographs show a smiley man with rimless spectacles and a cascading black mane. Nothing random, nothing embarrassing; not a hair \u2013 literally or figuratively \u2013 out of place. These results are no fluke. Fertik's company, which he started in 2006, has curated the online reputation of 1.6 million customers who pay upwards of \u00a3700 a year to have their most flattering activities showcased to the world via search engines. He has a staff of 240 in California and in 2013 he acquired the British company Reputation 24/7 and launched uk.reputation.com. Fertik likes to say that we are all naked on the internet and that your digital screens \u2013 phones, laptops and tablets \u2013 are actually more accurately viewed as the windows to your house. His job is to open and close the curtains to show you looking your best. Explaining his own pristine search results, Fertik says, \"Well, I use my own technology, that's rule number one. But, thank God, very few critical things have been written about me. It's not like there's been some big-hit piece in the New York Times. That's never happened because I'm pretty much who I describe myself as.\" Fertik talks fast, a New Yorker now transplanted to Silicon Valley, but momentarily he stops. \"That doesn't mean it doesn't happen to good people, I see it happen all the time.\" Fertik believes in the old-fashioned idea that your reputation matters and in his new book, The Reputation Economy, he argues that it has never been more important. As we move from an era of big data to the more considered and perceptive big analytics, the amount of information you give away about yourself \u2013 your \"digital footprint\" \u2013 increases exponentially every time you go online. Fertik thinks it is only a matter of time before each of us has a reputation score, just as we now have a credit rating. He writes, \"Reputation is becoming more valuable than money or power.\" He's not alone in this belief. Last year, in her book The Nature of the Future, futurist Marina Gorbis predicted that we are moving towards a \"socialstructed\" world: a new economy where your web influence and social connections will matter just as much as the money in your bank account. We are already seeing this happening in a sense. Last November, a middle-aged mother of two \u2013 a school governor with a perfect credit history \u2013 wanted to attend a concert at Die Glocke in Bremen but found that she was unable to book an apartment through Airbnb because the website judged that she didn't have enough friends on Facebook. Meanwhile, surveillance of our internet activities remains a highly charged issue. David Cameron hinted last week that he would like all methods of online communication to be available to the state. Services such as Snapchat, where messages can be shared for a short period of time before being deleted, would be outlawed under a rebooted communications data bill, aka the snooper's charter. \"Edward Snowden and newspapers like the Guardian have woken people up to the problem of surveillance,\" says Fertik. \"But the category error the Guardian commits, and that is committed by most journalism outlets \u2013 which are run by people who have liberal education in the tradition of the 1960s, 70s, 80s \u2013 is that it is the government and government surveillance that is the problem. But I am less afraid of big brother than I am of little brothers, meaning companies that have all this data.\" Fertik sees a day when numerous decisions will be made about each of us \u2013 about our lives and careers, even our dating prospects \u2013 based on reputation alone. One example: at present, when you apply for a job, it is possible your CV will undergo some basic automated screening, perhaps a check for previous convictions or other conspicuous red flags. Soon, however, computers could become more involved in recruitment or what Fertik calls \"decisions almost made by machine\". In this world, employers might specify particular keywords or skills they are looking for. A human would probably make the final decision but from a field dramatically narrowed down by screening software. What would the computer be looking for? It's hard to specify exactly, although Fertik points out ominously that even if you delete your browsing history and make all your purchases securely, you should still assume that all electronic information will be recorded and stored indefinitely. \"People think there's not a lot they can do,\" says Fertik. \"They say, 'I don't post a lot on Facebook, so I'm fine, right?' No! We are being digitised, analysed and in many cases compromised. So instead of pretending it's not happening, putting your head in the sand, I want to get people thinking about how they can turn it to their advantage.\" Maintaining a reputation used to be a lot more straightforward. \"So, 20,000 years ago, your reputation as the guy with the biggest club was the thing that we knew about each other,\" says Fertik. \"You'd have to fight occasionally, but probably the reputation of being the guy with the biggest club was enough to settle the argument. Now we are coming back to where we started in a way. We are just coming back a lot more intelligently.\" Computers might be intimidating adversaries, but in some sense, Fertik insists, they are still \"dumb\". When he first advises companies, invariably he instructs them to begin collecting genuine reviews from enthusiastic customers. Once you have the material, share it online in as many places as possible. The same applies to individuals looking to give their reputation a brush-up. Join as many sites as you can think of \u2013 Facebook, LinkedIn, Tumblr, Twitter \u2013 and saturate them with positive content about yourself. Before long, search engines should get the message. When Fertik started reputation.com \u2013 originally called ReputationDefender \u2013 he had not long graduated from Harvard Law School. He thought his clients would mainly be parents whose children had posted embarrassing content online; instead, his services proved popular with business professionals who felt their image had been tarnished in some way on the internet. Most would want to clear their name, something he usually advises against unless an accusation is categorically untrue. In the business, this is known as the Streisand effect, after the heavy-handed way the singer responded to a paparazzo photographing her house in 2003. Another of Fertik's sayings is: \"When you wrestle with a pig, you both get covered in mud.\" Fertik's response to slurs is again to create enough positive \"noise\" that any negative comments will fade into the background, and plummet down the search rankings. And, of course, prevention is much more effective than any treatment. Fertik strongly recommends that you avoid therapeutic purging on the internet. Keep the content you post light, frothy and relevant to your area of expertise. Even a persistently snarky tone to your tweets, he claims, could be enough to turn potential employers off you. Fertik instead suggests something really old-school: picking up your phone and calling your friends. Privacy is important to Fertik, as becomes obvious from a glance at his online search results. It's almost as if he was born in the year 2000: there's no mention of the school he attended, his parents; he may have a wife and children, but you would have to do some serious digging to find out. In a New York Times article from 2012, he describes his upbringing as \"Jewish, lefty, pinko\", but that's about it. This is intentional: in person, he is happy to talk about his family and his politics, but he'd rather stay off the record. \"I'm not hiding it, but I believe in the value of privacy and the virtue of privacy,\" says Fertik. \"There's a specious and historically false claim that is propagated and circulated by large social-media companies today that privacy is just an invention of the 18th or 19th century. That it never existed. But that's just ahistorical crap and it is repeated by smart, self-serving people in Silicon Valley, which is an ahistorical place.\" When Fertik launched ReputationDefender, he was identified as a threat to free speech, burying the bodies of those wealthy enough to afford his fees. A version of this argument resurfaced last year when the European Union's Court of Justice ruling on \"the right to be forgotten\" came into effect and Google was immediately swamped with requests to drop links that were \"inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant\". But Fertik believes the tide of opinion is changing, at least with what he does, and the reputation of reputation.com has received a modest uplift. \"When I started, the cool kids who were at the nexus of technology and law were worried that what we were doing was not consistent with free speech,\" says Fertik. \"That was never true and now I think they actually think the opposite. We were early in figuring out there were threats to your freedom, whether it's free speech or digital freedom. We are no longer Chicken Little. We were right.\" What if you don't have much of a reputation to protect or promote online in the first place? What if you are, say, an Observer journalist who has written a book on the Rwandan cycling team and is looking to raise his profile a little? To be more specific: me. As a final question, I ask Fertik what I should do to improve my reputation. For the next 15 minutes, I am in the full glare of Fertik's headlights. He is part cheerleader, part life coach, part bully. He begins by Googling my name \u2013 you should always start with self-Googling \u2013 and finds an underwhelming, near-invisible set of results. \"So first of all, you are not the most important Tim Lewis quote unquote according to Google,\" he says. \"And there's also what I call the 'doppelnamer' problem: there are many Tim Lewises, so you are not really showing up as a Tim Lewis anywhere. So that's problem number one\u2026 Or opportunity number one.\" No question, Fertik is skilled at what he does. He rattles off a list of sites I could join, places I need to post, and berates me for creating a personal website that includes neither the word \"Tim\" nor \"Lewis\" in the web address: \"That's cute and stupid. It's deeply dumb.\" As he talks, for a few moments, I allow myself to dream that a Google search for my name could one day be as comprehensive and adulatory as it is for Fertik. Then I put the phone down and life returns to normal. The Reputation Economy (Piatkus \u00a313.99) is out on 20 January. Click here to order a copy for \u00a311.19",
  "title": "Michael Fertik: online reputation is becoming more valuable than money or power",
  "lead": "The author of The Reputation Economy believes online reputation is now so important that we risk becoming persona non grata if we ignore it. He talks to Tim Lewis",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/tumblr",
    "technology/linkedin",
    "technology/whatsapp",
    "media/media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2015/jan/18/michael-fertik-online-reputation-economy-interview-valuable-money-power",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}