{
  "content": "One of the Conservative MPs who was contacted by a Sunday Mirror reporter posing as a woman interested in sex is to write to the Metropolitan police over the tabloid sting. Mark Pritchard said he would contact Scotland Yard and make a formal complaint to the Independent Press Standards Organisation (Ipso) over accusations of entrapment. He said on Twitter: \"Test for IPSO and Met Police. I will write to both today about Sunday Mirror story. Was the criminal law and IPSO Code of Conduct broken?\" It will be a test case for the independence and effectiveness of the new regulator set up by some newspapers after the failure of its predecessor, the Press Complaints Commission, to respond to allegations of phone-hacking at the News of the World. Pritchard is one of a group of Conservative MPs who claim they were victims of a form of attempted entrapment. On Saturday, another MP, Brooks Newmark, resigned before the publication of a story that revealed he had exchanged explicit images with the undercover reporter, who was purporting to be an attractive \"twentysomething Tory PR girl\". Pritchard said he was setting Ipso an early test of whether it had real teeth. Separately on Monday, the culture secretary, Sajid Javid, repeatedly declined to say whether he believed Newmark had fallen victim to \"legitimate\" journalism. \"Each case is different and I think you can't just give a yes or no answer,\" he told BBC Radio 5 Live. \"I don't know the details of every case and so I would hesitate to say that.\" Otherwise, Javid said, it would be inappropriate for him to comment in the light of possible legal action. \"This issue is a very personal issue for Brooks.\" He said significant changes had been made based on the recommendations of the Leveson inquiry, including the creation of Ipso. The Sunday Mirror is facing accusations of entrapment over a sting on the minister for civil society after it emerged he was one of several MPs contacted by a male freelance reporter posing as a young female Conservative supporter on social media. The reporter, who is not on the staff of the Sunday Mirror, created a fictional account of \"Sophie Wittams\" on Twitter, which has since been deleted, and appears to have contacted at least six Conservative MPs, including Pritchard and the latest Ukip defector, Mark Reckless. The paper said the reporter made contact with Newmark while investigating the alleged inappropriate use of social media by MPs. After exchanging direct messages with \"Sophie\" on Twitter, Newmark swapped numbers with her, then sent explicit pictures of himself using the messaging service WhatsApp. It is not known whether the woman whose image was used on the fake Twitter account had given consent, or who was depicted in the explicit images sent to the MP. Ipso's editors' code of practice states: \"Engaging in misrepresentation or subterfuge, including by agents or intermediaries, can generally be justified only in the public interest and then only when the material cannot be obtained by other means.\" The body confirmed on Sunday that, unlike the PCC, it was capable of taking proactive action against a news organisation even if a complaint had not been made. The PCC upheld a complaint from the MP Tim Farron after a sting on Vince Cable and others in 2010, ruling that the Daily Telegraph had embarked on a \"fishing expedition\" that was \"designed solely to entrap members of parliament\" and had no plausible public interest justification. Charlotte Harris, a media lawyer at Mishcon de Reya, said the sting on Newmark was in similar territory. \"Many members of the public reading the Sunday Mirror story will consider that it does amount to entrapment \u2013 particularly if you look at when the story has been used. If you are looking to expose hypocrisy, then you need to expose it when you discover it, not when you are going to get the best headline,\" she said. Harris said the timing of the story could be unfortunate for the newspaper, coming just days after Trinity Mirror agreed to pay compensation to 10 victims of phone-hacking, including the former England football manager Sven-G\u00f6ran Eriksson and the former Doctor Who actor Christopher Eccleston. \"We are no longer in a situation where newspapers can simply say this is in the public interest and expect the public to accept that,\" she said. \"In the post-Leveson environment, the Sunday Mirror needs to be ready to justify its methods and not expect to be able to publish a story like this without criticism.\" There was speculation that the image used to set up the fake profile may be of a Swedish model. Other images used on the profile appeared to have been taken from other Twitter users. The newspaper also appears to use an image taken from the account of a woman from Lincolnshire, who posted a \"sunbathing selfie\" on Twitter. Charlene Tyler, 26, told the Telegraph she was upset that a photograph of her in a bikini had been used on the fake account. \"I think grown adults can do whatever they like, as long as both of them are over the age of consent,\" she said. \"Sending someone a picture of your willy isn't the end of the world. The fact that a newspaper was stealing my photograph is quite wrong. The newspaper's taken it too far.\" According to BuzzFeed, the fake account was used over a period of time to contact the Tory MP for Enfield North, Nick De Bois. \"Sophie\" called Charlie Elphicke, Tory MP for Dover and Deal, a \"legend\", while Robert Jenrick, elected at the Newark byelection in June, was described as a \"fitty\". Jesse Norman, MP for Hereford and South Herefordshire, and Pritchard, who is Tory MP for The Wrekin in Shropshire, were also contacted. Evidence from the account suggests that some MPs gave polite responses. There is no suggestion of wrongdoing by any of them. The editors' code states that \"everyone is entitled to respect for his or her private and family life, home, health and correspondence, including digital communications\", adding that \"editors will be expected to justify intrusions into any individual's private life\". News organisations can claim public interest to justify publication of reports that \"detect or expose crime or serious impropriety\" or \"prevent the public from being misled by an action or statement of an individual or organisation\". The Sunday Mirror said the story was clearly in the public interest. Alison Phillips, Mirror editor (weekends), said: \"This investigation was brought to the Sunday Mirror by a freelance reporter. The investigation, which had a clear public interest, was carried out following information from a reliable source.\" Phillips said that as Newmark was a co-founder of the Women2Win campaign he was at the forefront of Conservative party attempts to promote more female MPs. \"Therefore his exchanges with someone he believed to be a young intern interested in politics were wholly inappropriate. Mr Newmark has apologised for his actions and resigned,\" she said. Paul Connew, the former Sunday Mirror editor, said there was a public interest in the story being published but questioned its execution. \"I think in principle it was [justified],\" he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. \"I have some misgivings about it, particularly in the sense that some photos may have been used by real women.\" Connew, who was also deputy editor of the News of the World and Daily Mirror, said the case was the first real test for Ipso. He added: \"On balance I think it was right but flawed in its execution.\" Evan Harris, a member of the campaign group Hacked Off, said the story raised serious questions of journalistic ethics. \"Even if there ends up being a public interest justification for the subterfuge, we know from the Telegraph's Vince Cable constituency surgery \"sting\" operation that even the soft-touch Press Complaints Commission considered mere 'fishing expeditions' to be against the newspaper ethics code,\" he said. \"This is because you need to have a reasonable suspicion before entrapping people into sexual or other indiscretions. It seems that the tabloids have learned nothing from the Mazher Mahmood farrago.\" An Ipso spokesman said: \"Ipso will look into any complaint about the story concerned if any such complaint is submitted.\"",
  "title": "MP refers Sunday Mirror to police and press regulator over sex sting",
  "lead": "Mark Pritchard to complain to Scotland Yard and Ipso over 'entrapment' that led to Brooks Newmark's resignation",
  "tags": [
    "politics/conservatives",
    "media/ipso",
    "media/sundaymirror",
    "world/privacy",
    "politics/toryconference",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "politics/politics",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "politics/2014/sep/29/sunday-mirror-complaint-ipso-press-regulator-sex-sting",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}