{
  "content": "It was just too easy. The internet finally came around to the fact that Kim Kardashian and her most precious accessory, Kanye West (or is it the other way around?) have made the cover of Vogue magazine. It was never supposed to happen, but it did. But just because people have accepted reality does not mean they're taking Anna Wintour's decision lying down. Thanks to the magic of Photoshop, retribution against fashion's most elite magazine has been swift, and hilarious. Celebrities like Seth Rogen and Miss Piggy have swapped out Kimye for some other, more notable pop culture couples. And some on Twitter even dared to get political: So far, this is an entertaining trend, but it's not yet a full-blown meme. All it needs is a little push. So do you have basic photo-editing skills and a wicked sense of humor? We want you to use these assets to replace Kim and Kanye with another famous pair. They don't have to be romantically involved \u2014 in fact, the more out of the box, the better (we will be very disappointed if we don't get at least one True Detective submission.) Your mission is to break Twitter. We've already made a couple of attempts, but you can do better. Use the Vogue cover we've provided below post as your canvas, and once you've worked your Photoshop wizardry, tweet your creations at @GuardianUS. We'll feature the best of our readers' and followers' submissions here. Here's a little inspiration to get you started: And now for some of our readers' most imaginative creations: Many drew inspiration from popular culture. Beyonce and Jay Z managed to get dragged into this as well, likely against their will. We couldn't help but notice a strong geopolitical theme to the submissions.",
  "title": "Help us reimagine the Kim Kardashian-Kanye West Vogue cover",
  "lead": "miss piggy",
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/celebrity",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/twitter",
    "lifeandstyle/kim-kardashian",
    "music/kanyewest"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "lifeandstyle/2014/mar/24/help-us-reimagine-the-kim-kardashian-kanye-west-vogue-cover",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}