{
  "content": "Spammers are, as is their cockroach-ly way, focussing more and more on growing social networks to peddle their wares. Latest to receive this attention in a big way is Twitter, through two methods: fake support emails, and accounts on the service itself. The fake support emails - there's an example in the picture above - seem like they're pointing you to Twitter, but in fact relay you to hacked and/or malicious sites (in this case a mysterious site allegedly allocated to an Ethiopian domain, suffix .et). In the case of the site linked above, it loads a script from another site entirely which is hosted in China, the spammers' haven, and claims to sell pharmaceuticals. (If you need any reminding - some do - giving your card details and a home delivery address is the perfect way to get your card cloned and yourself ripped off all over the globe, even if they do deliver anything afterwards and even if it does have any pharmacological effects, which we suspect would be indistinguishable from placebos.) Meanwhile Graham Cluley of Sophos is warning that what appears to be the selfsame bunch - claiming to be a pharmaceutical \"shop\" based in Canada (and so attractive to Americans because it avoids various taxes on drugs) - has set up on Twitter itself. But, has says, \"Twitter users who choose to visit the site risk handing placing sensitive personal data in the wrong hands and being sold counterfeit drugs.\" \"Sophos has found that @canadianshop is not hiding who they are \u2013 even their background wallpaper uses familiar imagery to promote medications such Viagra and Cialis. At the time of writing @canadianshop is following more than 2,000 people and - more worrying still - 589 people are following the account back.\" That though is most likely because those people have set themselves to autofollow anyone who follows them. \"Followers put themselves at risk of falling foul of the bit.ly links that redirect them to the Canadian Pharmacy website,\" notes Cluley. \"Such sites are well known for frequently being promoted in email spam and search engines but Twitter provides them with a new platform to peddle their wares.\" Indeed, bit.ly probably does need a new way to report spammy links in its system. And a final roundup of today's computerised malfeasance: BitDefender sent us an email with the fascinating title \"Early iPad virus strikes users\". This of course would be world-shocking news: a virus that affects the iPad? That thing with the locked-down operating system, where apps only get onto it once they're approved by Apple, and which I suggested might be a good line of defence against online malware? Hell, there goes my reputation for analysis. But wait, let's read further. \"BitDefender has identified a virus targeting the estimated 600,000 iPads sold since its release.\" Hell! Reputation in shreds! Carry on. \"An email promising \"\u2026best performance, newer features and security\" instructs iPad users to download the latest version of iTunes onto their PC to begin the update, and provides a bogus link to do so. Following the malicious link shows a perfect imitation of the one they would use for legitimate iTunes software downloads, which results in malware being downloaded onto the user's system and leaving their sensitive data open to exploitation.\" Damn! Er, wait a minute. An iPad doesn't store iTunes - that's an app on the main computer that you synchronise to. What's going on, BitDefender? \"Identified by BitDefender as Backdoor.Bifrose.AADY, the piece of malicious code inadvertently downloaded injects itself into the explorer.exe process and opens up a backdoor that allows unauthorized access to and control over the affected system. Moreover, Backdoor.Bifrose.AADY attempts to read the keys and serial numbers of the various software installed on the affected computer, while also logging the passwords to the victim's ICQ, Messenger, POP3 mail accounts, and protected storage.\" Oh - so it's a Windows virus. Yes, I've heard of those. BitDefender's signoff: \"It is important to say that Mac users remain unaffected by this piece of malware.\" Oh. OK. Which means that actual iPads remain even more unaffected then? Nevertheless, the cockroaches are all out there, notably on email but also on Twitter. Avoid at all costs.",
  "title": "Today's malware roundup: Twitter 'support' emails and iPad 'viruses'",
  "lead": "Spammer and malware merchants never sleep - and their latest vectors are all too familiar. Though the iPad itself remains untouched",
  "tags": [
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/computing",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/malware"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/blog/2010/apr/27/twitter-spam-pharma-ipad-virus",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}