{
  "content": "You know that feeling when one of your friends shares something politically unsavoury on Facebook? It's a common problem, and when Geoff Stevens started seeing posts from the BNP offshoot Britain First turning up on his feed, he decided it was ripe for parody. Britain First has nearly half a million 'likes' on its Facebook page, with many presumably unaware that they are sharing material disseminated by an organisation set up by ex-BNP members with, as Channel 4 reports, an anti-Muslim agenda. Its posts range from tributes to the armed forces and the Royal Family, to complaints about mass immigration and calls to 'Ban the Burka'. But there are also surreal posts, such as this tribute to the 'Great British Lollipop Men And Women'. \"When I saw Britain First, I genuinely thought it was a parody page of far right groups,\" says Stevens. \"And then I realised it was serious. And I thought, why has no-one started a parody page?\" The resulting page, Britain Furst, has brought social media users' attention to, amongst other things, the dangers of Halal sunglasses and the need to bring back hanging. Though obviously satirical, Facebook removed the page's banner image after a complaint from Britain First. They replaced it with one starring grumpy cat, with the tagline: 'palatable racism for ignorant Englanders'. Some have reported the Britain First page for hate speech, Stevens noted the irony of a far right group attempting to block criticism, but has no wish to see it taken down. \"I'd happily advocate what they're doing in terms of free speech, but everything else kind of scares me.\" \u2022 The name of the Facebook page's author has been changed to protect his identity",
  "title": "Britain Furst: the halal Ray-ban-wearing far right Facebook mockers",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/far-right",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/social-media",
    "politics/politics",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Britain Furst have been mocking the pretensions of BNP offshoot Britain First on Facebook - despite having their page reported by the far right group",
  "id": "media/2014/jun/20/britain-furst-the-halal-ray-ban-wearing-far-right-facebook-mockers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}