{
  "content": "Here's a typical drive-by scene, taken from Twitter. It's Matt Cutts of Google, who recently complained: \"Stayed up till 1am to clear out email inbox and woke up to 77 more this morning? #@$%#@$. May ignore inbox and catch up with team today.\" Hang around long enough on any similar service, or browse a few blogs, and you'll find people all having the same reaction. They're in search of the mythical \"inbox zero\" \u2013 which seems to be rather like going in search of the end of the rainbow: just when you think you're getting nearer to it, the damn thing moves away again. Email falls like the rain on the plain in Spain. Or Manchester. And if you hang around long enough on Twitter, you'll also see people wondering aloud \"Why can't emails be more like Twitter? If they were a maximum of 140 characters, that would be great\" or \"I've discovered I can do some of the things via Twitter that I'd otherwise have to do on work email! Fantastic!\" In the latter case, it's a good bet that the \"things\" being done are principally telling colleagues what you're up to. (Indeed Yammer, a sort of corporate wannabe Twitter, doesn't ask \"What are you doing?\" as Twitter does, but \"What are you working on?\" From this people can get up to speed on what's going on inside the organisation.) But that's not unique to Twitter. Hang around anywhere, mention \"email\" and you won't find people who say \"Oh, I love email!\" Nope, ask around when you next meet some people and find out what they think about email. Then ask them about Facebook, or Twitter, or instant messaging, or blogging, or navigating Google Street View. They may not all love them, but it's a safe bet that they'll like all of those a lot more than they do email. Why is that? It's pretty simple, really, once you realise it. And when you do, you understand why email is irredeemably broken. Broken beyond almost all recourse. Here's why. With all those other applications, you get to choose what appears. Twitter? You get to choose who you follow. (Even, if you want, who gets to follow you.) On Facebook, you choose who is your friend, and how much of your profile they can see; you choose when you update stuff; whether you join groups; what emails you get. Instant messaging? You choose conversations, pick what your status is. Blogging? If you've nothing to write, you don't write. (And any sensible blog lets you either moderate comments first or delete them afterwards.) Street View? You can choose where you go. All that limits you is whether the Google car has been there yet. But email? Email comes unbidden. Even when you discount spam \u2013 which is pretty hard to do, though the protection against it has improved enormously over the years \u2013 you still have the fact that there are the daft round-robins, the messages you've been cc'd into just so someone can later say \"But didn't you read X? I copied you in!\", the messages you receive and think \"That's pretty important but it's not urgent\" which then get trampled by something that's urgent, even if not important... What it amounts to is loss of control. We can't control our inboxes because they don't belong to us. Which is what is so frustrating about email. It feels as though our email address, and hence inbox, should be something over which we have dominion. That is what Inbox Zero is trying to pretend: that a clean inbox is a healthy inbox. You say you press \"delete\" a lot? Tell me, how much time do you spend doing that on IM or Twitter? But the reality is that as soon as enough people know your email address, it will go viral, and it's lost to you forever. The problem, the eternal problem, with email is that it costs nothing to send, but costs you in attention: is that sender relevant? Is that subject line relevant? What's in this email? Of course, it doesn't help that the technology to build up mailing lists has exploded with email. When a mailing list used to be applied to physical letters, companies worked hard to make a really good one, because wasted mailings meant wasted money. Now, they don't: the waste is all transferred to the receiver's end, in the form of their time. (One general lesson about the internet: it pushes costs from what used to be the centre to the edge. Downloading a PDF rather than buying a paper version? If you print any part out, that's the printing cost \u2013 paper plus printer \u2013 shifted to you.) The proliferation of badly-curated mailing lists is making the email problem worse; and some of those put in charge of those lists clearly underestimate how annoying the effects can be. Earlier this afternoon I got an email about brushes. Not the electric motor variety \u2013 no breakthroughs there \u2013 but the painting sort. And no, there wasn't any nanotechnology or similar involved. The person who'd sent it explained (because my email requesting he remove my address from his files, because he clearly couldn't be trusted to use it sensibly, bounced as being \"blacklisted\" \u2013 a fabulous addition of insult to injury) that he must have got a couple of lists mixed up. I know: you're saying I should just roll with it. You're a journalist! You should like getting email! But this is a problem that goes far beyond it. Unless you operate a strict whitelisting system, where you only let particular people email you, the problem of the unread, uncontrolled inbox will always be with you. It will suck up your attention, demand you either kill it or curate it or, ultimately, ignore it. This essential flaw at the heart of email \u2013 that you can't control it, because despite appearances it isn't yours \u2013 is the reason why you'll never get satisfaction from it. When there's no new messages, you start to fret that either the mail server is broken, or that you've been frozen out of something, or that nobody's doing any damn work. When there are too many messages, it gets in the way of doing the work. Email is, let's just accept it, broken in concept and in practice. And that is why people have embraced Twitter so wholeheartedly. It lets them talk only to the people they want to, and to swap information as they like. You can even create secret networks within it \u2013 just set up a group of people with protected updates who only follow each other. Try doing that with email; no matter how hard you try, eventually the address will go public. Hell, even Steve Jobs's and Bill Gates's addresses have leaked out; Gates used to get thousands of spams every day. No. Forget Inbox Zero. Email is broken. We can't fix it because the idea is broken. It has its uses, for long messages that you want to receive from people. But in an attention economy where time is precious, it doesn't stand up. After all, the real test of a technology is: if it didn't exist, would you invent it now? I think if we had everything but email, we wouldn't. We'd use instant messaging or other file-transfer methods for long chunks of information, and websites for \"broadcasting\" stuff. Email? It's just, like, sooooo 20th century.",
  "title": "Charlie's Angles: Help! My email isn't full of useful stuff I want to read!",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/email",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/spam"
  ],
  "lead": "Charlie's Angles: Instant messaging, Facebook, Twitter, email: can you spot the odd one out \u2013 and why?",
  "id": "technology/2009/mar/27/email-broken-charlies-angles",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}