{
  "content": "I have a lengthy track record as a critic of the Press Complaints Commission and a supporter of press self-regulation. Too many of the PCC's non-journalistic critics fail to make the distinction and I wonder whether David Puttnam has made that mistake in his latest attack on the commission. He says the PCC should be scrapped if newspapers do not \"improve their behaviour within a year\". Scrapped in favour of what? Presumably, he means it should be replaced by some kind of mandatory regulation. He doesn't say so. But I doubt that he means the commission should simply vanish and let newspapers do as they like. (Whatever he may think, the editors' code of practice has had a measurably beneficial effect compared to the Wild West era that preceded its existence). Now it's easy to thunder about the PCC's inadequacies. I've done it plenty of times. But it is worthless to do so unless you can point to specific failings and even more worthless if it offers no guide to improvement. I am objective enough to recognise that the PCC is, to an extent, a fig-leaf for newspaper and magazine publishers. They fund it because they wish to deflect political and legal encroachments. For my part (and I know American journalists find this totally illogical), I see it as a way of preserving press freedom in Britain. It is the least worst way of compelling editors and journalists to be responsible without curbing all of their freedom. That's not to say that everything is wonderful. It isn't and it never will be. That goes with the territory. Nor does my defence of self-regulation negate all of Puttnam's broader arguments, outlined in his House of Lords lecture, about the problems created by the struggle between the parallel \u00e9lites of the political and media spheres. He is quoted as saying: \"Between them they have managed to construct a battlefield upon which the big losers are truth, illumination and common sense; the very things we most need if we are to understand and make sense of this increasingly dangerous and complex world of ours.\" This echoes the views of John Lloyd in his challenging 2004 book, What the media are doing to our politics. I do worry about the zero-sum game between us and them, though it's unclear where the blame lies and it is also impossible to devise a simple strategy to change a situation built up over years. But I am sure that pulling down the edifice of press self-regulation is not the answer to the problem.",
  "title": "Roy Greenslade: Why Puttnam's PCC criticism is off target",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pcc",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/local-newspapers",
    "media/magazines",
    "politics/politics",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "I have a lengthy track record as a critic of the Press Complaints Commission and a supporter of press self-regulation",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2010/jun/30/pcc-national-newspapers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}