{
  "content": "Newspapers have the right to name teenagers who go on trial in youth courts once they turn 18, the high court ruled today. A senior judge said it was important the press, \"as the eyes and ears\" of the public, should know where it stood on the issue of identifying young people. The law protects children and young people from being identified if they appear before youth courts but, until today, it was unclear whether their identities should remain secret if they turned 18 while their cases were still in progress. Lord Justice Brooke, sitting with Mr Justice Sullivan, dismissed an appeal by David Lee Todd, from Sunderland, against a South Tyneside Youth Court decision to allow local newspapers to name him after his 18th birthday. Todd received a four-month detention and training order from the court in April this year after pleading guilty to an offence of causing grievous bodily harm in March 2002. Mr Justice Sullivan said a court usher at Sunderland magistrates court had been pushed by Todd and had fallen to the ground, breaking a number of bones in his foot. He pleaded guilty on the basis that while he deliberately pushed the usher, Alan Bruce, he did not intend to cause injury but had been reckless as to whether or not injury would be caused. Todd was 17 at the time of the incident but turned 18 the following October while his case was still in progress. A joint letter from the editors of the Sunderland Echo and Shields Gazette called for Todd to be named, arguing the seriousness of the charge admitted by him and his previous record \"gave weight to the argument that the public needs to know who Todd is and what he is capable of doing\". They argued he was not entitled to continuing anonymity under section 49 of the 1933 Children and Young Persons Act, which protects youngsters from being identified in the press. The magistrates agreed to the request and Todd was subsequently named in the Sunderland Echo under the headline \"Thug named and shamed for attack\" and also by the Gazette. Todd subsequently appealed and a ban on naming him was reimposed pending today's test case. Philip Plowden, appearing for Todd, argued the teenager should not be named as the proceedings brought against him had started in July 2002 when he was 17, and section 44 anonymity applied throughout the proceedings. Disagreeing, Mr Justice Sullivan said the purpose of section 44 was \"not to protect the interests of young persons once they have ceased to be such and have become adults. \"Once a person... becomes an adult there is no reason to retain that restriction.\" Lord Justice Brooke agreed, saying: \"The news media is often described as the eyes and ears of the public. \"For these reasons it is important, so far as reasonably practicable, that representatives of the media should be able to understand what is and is not open to them to publish.\" The judges lifted the order banning Todd from being identified. Later Nick Alway, solicitor for newspaper publisher Northeast Press, which resisted today's appeal, welcomed the court's decision. He said: \"As Lord Justice Brooke said, the news media is often described as the eyes and ears of the public. \"That was exactly the function that the Sunderland Echo and the Shields Gazette were performing by challenging the original attempt to impose restrictions in this case. \"It is very good news for the media generally to have this point clarified once and for all. \"That these sort of restrictions don't apply to persons before the youth court once they have turned 18 has done a service for the media at large.\" \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857",
  "title": "Media given right to name over-18s in youth courts",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": " Newspapers can name teenagers who go on trial in youth courts once they turn 18, the high court ruled today.",
  "id": "media/2003/oct/06/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}