{
  "content": "My buddy Barack Obama is planning to announce his vice-presidential selection via text message and email. He told me so on Twitter. See, I follow him on Twitter, meaning I get little updates of 140 letters or less when he travels to another country for a speech or when he decides what the medium for his VP announcement will be. He follows me and 58,260 other Twitterers in return, which means he's privy to my happy-birthday note to my brother, garage sale advice to my pal Steph, and my exclamations of delight on tasting an $18 glass of wine. We're like old friends. In his Tweet \u2013 that's what the in-crowd calls messages on Twitter \u2013 Obama instructed his virtual pals to \"Text VP to 62262\" in order to be among the first to know the big news. I thought about it. I pictured myself receiving the text message and squealing with glee as though my best friend told me she was pregnant. I figured it would happen in the grocery store where I could make a big scene of it. But I didn't sign on. Why? Well, it's just not that urgent. I can find out who his running mate will be via text message, email or regular old Google News, and I'll still be among the first to know. Heck, I could probably wait for the next day's newspapers to come out and still know before a lot of folks. But that's probably not the point, is it? The point is a sense of connection. Many young Americans already feel more connected to Obama than to John McCain because, while McCain is old enough to be our grandfather, Obama's only old enough to be perhaps a big brother or an uncle. And while that may not be the reason we cite when deciding who will have our support in November, a sense of connection might be just what it takes to sway some undecided voters. Meanwhile, everyone I know is trying to create the same sense of connection with everyone from professional contacts to potential dates. As I complained loudly about a general shortage of professional opportunities, one person urged me to contact a friend of a friend whom he \"knows\" through LinkedIn, a sort of Facebook for job hunting. But what am I supposed to say? \"Hi, we've never met, but I know someone who has a vague idea of who you are, and he thinks you should give me a job.\" That just doesn't sound promising. And really, are we any more connected to Barack Obama than to this supposed professional contact we've never even met? Look at John Edwards, whose all-American boy image has just been tarnished with the news of his extramarital affair. I thought I had an idea of who Edwards was, but cheating on his ailing wife is a rather scummy thing to do \u2013 not what I expected of him. Obama could just as easily have skeletons in his own closet. I don't particularly want to know about them, but I also don't want to develop a false sense of closeness to this person who is, essentially, still a stranger to me. I appreciate that Obama's team reaches out to younger voters by embracing our favourite forms of communication. But at the end of the campaign, we have to remember to vote for the candidate who will make the best president, and as far as I know, prolific texting isn't part of the job description.",
  "title": "Mary Richert: Why would I want a text message from Barack Obama about his vice-presidential choice",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "us-news/us-elections-2008",
    "media/media",
    "us-news/barack-obama",
    "media/blogging",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "us-news/us-politics"
  ],
  "lead": "Mary Richert: Barack Obama is announcing his vice-presidential choice by text message to thousands. Will it make anyone feel more connected to him?",
  "id": "commentisfree/2008/aug/12/socialnetworking.uselections2008",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}