{
  "content": "What is The Affair? The Affair is a menswear brand inspired by literature. It's aimed at the modern consumer who values conversation and cares about clothes. Fashion is self-expression and so are the books you read. By combining the two we aim to create products that affect you like a good story. Writer Rudyard Kipling said: \"Words are the most powerful drug used by mankind.\" As a brand we celebrate the iconic characters, stories and ideas that explore the human condition and have shaped generations. Our mission is to use fashion as a Trojan horse \u2013 to start conversations and get people talking about ideas, large and small. What can you tell us about the use of anti-surveillance tech in the new range? Our latest collection is called 1984. It's inspired by author George Orwell but built for a post-Snowden revelations world. It's stealth fashion for the under-surveillance society, with clothes constructed around a removable stealth UnPocket\u2122 that makes you untrackable, unhackable and invisible to Big Brother. UnPocket is a secure pouch made from layers of police-grade metalised fabrics that block all radio signals (cellular, Wi-Fi, GPS and radio-frequency identification) in and out. It's the same tech the police use to prevent suspects from remotely wiping digital evidence, but it works even better in reverse to protect you from location tracking via your smartphone. It also protects you from wireless identity theft, which makes UnPocket perfect for travelling; we made it big enough to fit your ePassport, contactless bank cards and phone. It's important to note that simply turning your phone off isn't enough and without physically removing the battery (which is impossible on most models) there's no guarantee that your phone isn't leaking your location data. We're not suggesting that people should stop using their phones. What we are doing is giving people the power to make privacy a choice whenever they want. With the recent Edward Snowden revelations on surveillance, is there a greater demand for this kind of technology in fashion? Absolutely. Snowden risked everything to force a public dialogue about what privacy means in the digital age \u2013 the least we can do is tear ourselves away from Instagram for a minute and pay attention. I think having the choice to drop off the grid is critical and whether you do or don't, products like ours, which put power back in your hands, are important because for the great majority of people, privacy matters. As Snowden said in his alternative Christmas message on Channel 4 last year: \"Privacy is what allows us to determine who we are and who we want to be.\" Or if you prefer to quote Banksy, I think he meant the same thing when he said: \"Invisibility is a superpower.\" Should retailers care more about privacy and security? Privacy is a fundamental human right (enshrined by the UN) but I think that stealth tech is conceptually at odds with mainstream fashion, which is all about trend-driven peacocking. Fashion has always been about choice and broadcasting your values, and I do think that as the debate continues and awareness grows, more people will want to reclaim privacy and become invisible to Big Brother. Clothing will be just one of many ways to do that. Do you see the relationship between fashion and tech growing? Certainly. Fashion as an industry and business isn't immune to change. The most exciting developments at the moment are in materials science and business models that cut out the retail middle man. Advances in on-demand manufacturing, plus the internet of things, will force fundamental change on what we expect our clothes to be and do, as well as the type of companies who supply the market. Other technologies like virtual reality will create entirely digital fashion houses that may not ever need to worry about manufacturing or logistics. And of course, there's the burgeoning market for wearables \u2013 although the hardware requirements make barriers to entry fairly high. What advice do you have for other fashion tech startups? Think outside the box and act like a tech startup. Adopt lean methodologies and take inspiration from lots of different fields. The traditional fashion industry is ripe for disruption and the gatekeepers are not nearly as powerful as they used to be. Find your niche, create great content constantly that your customers want to share and finally, explore (and use) new routes to market for demand validation \u2013 for example Kickstarter \u2013 where the risk is minimal. Zoltan Csaki is co-founder of The Affair More from the Shop talk series \u2022 Befittd: step into the online fitting room \u2022 Nuji: a community for fashion lovers \u2022 Gleam: the consumer fashion app targeting businesses and brands To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \"Brought to you by\" \u2013 find out more here.",
  "title": "The Affair: the fashion brand making stealth tech stylish",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "business/retail",
    "technology/efinance",
    "us-news/edward-snowden",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Founder Zoltan Csaki on how his brand is incorporating anti-surveillance tech to stimulate debate on privacy in the 21st century",
  "id": "media-network/2014/dec/17/shop-talk-the-affair-fashion-surveillance",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}