{
  "content": "MySpace, the world's most popular online social network, has launched a version of its website in China, despite fears among human rights campaigners that users will be censored or spied on by the totalitarian Communist state. Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of News Corp, which owns MySpace, said last year that the company was looking for a way to enter China without running into political obstacles of the type faced by Google, which agreed to self-censor its content; and by Yahoo, which gave the Chinese government information about the site's users. Both internet companies have been targeted by Irrepressible.info, the joint campaign run by The Observer and Amnesty International calling for freedom of speech online. Murdoch has set up a separate business to avoid any problems. MySpace China is a 'locally owned, operated and managed company' in which News Corp is only one among several investors, according to its chief executive, Luo Chuan, the former head of Microsoft's MSN China. He said: 'Our team here will have the sole right to decide the operation model, the technology platform as well as the product strategy. It's very unlike the other multinationals you might have heard about or seen in the Chinese market.' Campaigners fear that the site, which allows users to share text, pictures, music and videos, will provide another means for China's army of internet police to gather information on users. Dozens of Chinese bloggers have been jailed for posting political comments online. Even with MySpace China still in its 'beta' testing stage, allegations of censorship have emerged. According to the technology news site Texyt.com, discussion forums on religion and politics are nowhere to be found on MySpace.cn, despite being popular topics on the main MySpace sites. Instead, users are only offered safer topics such as sport and films. Texyt also reports that users are told to click a button if they spot any 'misconduct' by other users - actions such as 'endangering national security, leaking state secrets, subverting the government, undermining national unity, spreading rumours or disturbing the social order'. Attempts to post content containing a variety of sensitive terms, such as 'Taiwanese independence', the 'Fa Lun' religious movement or the Dalai Lama, produce the following message: 'Sorry, the article you want to publish may contain inappropriate content. Please delete the unsuitable content, and then try reposting it. Thank you.' The logo for MySpace.cn translates as 'Friend You. Friend Me'. Ron Deibert of the OpenNet Initiative, an alliance opposed to the filtering of the internet, said: 'We should look at it along the same lines as other technology investors in the country that had to alter their conduct to comply with Chinese restrictions.' Tim Hancock, the campaigns director for Amnesty International, said: 'It's no surprise to see MySpace heading towards China, given that China will soon have more internet users than any other country in the world. 'Social networking has already proved really popular in China, and has enormous potential to open up new space for communication and debate. But this is only going to happen if MySpace resists the urge to abandon the principle of free speech, as so many other internet companies have done, in order to please the Chinese government.' Mike Gapes, chairman of the House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee, which published a report on internet censorship last year, said: 'Clearly it is a matter of concern if international standards of openness are swept aside by people who are more interested in making money.' MySpace issued a statement which said: 'As a locally owned, operated and managed company, MySpace China complies with local law and legal enforcement requests.' 'Some People Think the Internet is a Bad Thing: The Struggle for Freedom of Expression in Cyberspace' event The Observer and Amnesty International are to mark one year of Irrepressible.info, their joint campaign against online censorship, with a global, interactive, online event examining the future of freedom on the internet. The event, called 'Some People Think the Internet is a Bad Thing: The Struggle for Freedom of Expression in Cyberspace', is to be webcast globally on the evening of 6 June from Amnesty International UK's Human Rights Action Centre in Shoreditch, east London, and will be chaired by the BBC reporter Clark Boyd. Contributors will include those who have experienced internet repression from around the world: dotcom entrepreneur Martha Lane Fox; jailed US blogger Josh Wolf; founder of Wikipedia Jimmy Wales; founder of the Free Software movement Richard Stallman; Cory Doctorow from webzine Boing Boing; and Kevin Anderson, head of blogs at the Guardian Irrepressible.info was launched in The Observer in May 2006 and has received more than 66,000 pledges of support. 'Some People Think the Internet is a Bad Thing' will be online at www.amnesty.org.uk/webcast. To win free tickets to the event, see next week's Observer.",
  "title": "Murdoch extends his net to China",
  "lead": "MySpace has launched a version of its website in China, but human rights activists fear it will be abused by censors. By David Smith",
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "world/china",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/rupert-murdoch",
    "business/business",
    "world/world",
    "technology/myspace",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/web20",
    "technology/internet",
    "world/asia-pacific"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2007/may/20/news.newmedia",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}