{
  "content": "If I had begun this column with an account of my recent battle with a company that \u2013 allegedly \u2013 installs dishwashers, you may well have thought that this isn't the place for one woman's consumer rant. And you'd be right, so I'll save it for a piece of Beckettian performance art. Our powerlessness in the face of shoddy mobile phone operators, computer repair hotlines and insurance companies is maddeningly compounded by the prevailing myth that consumers now enjoy tremendous clout. The consumer rights bill making its way through parliament adds to the sense that if companies don't give us exactly what we want, we will walk. In the heady atmosphere of cyberutopianism, it's easy to imagine that we can all be like Paul Cookson, the father whose Facebook campaign against travel firms charging extra during school holidays attracted more than 160,000 supporters. But these well-publicised social media success stories are exceptional. They create the illusion of agency, distracting us from the lack of concerted pushback against the sharp corporate practices that blight our everyday lives. Desperate for solidarity in the depths of dishwasher doldrums, I Googled the offending company and found dozens of messageboard threads, little atomised cul-de-sacs of outrage, all going nowhere. When we're down our rabbit holes of call-centre hell, we're mostly on our own. So I was cheered by a report this month from Which? on the big six energy firms, which revealed that they received more than 5.5m complaints last year. Which? \u2013 founded in 1957 in a converted garage in Bethnal Green, east London, by the sociologist Michael Young, believes in the ability of the consumer to challenge corporate power. But the great value of Which? is its discerning judgment, an unfashionable quality in the age of the digital amateur and horizontalist activism. It cuts through the befuddling miasma of commercially sponsored price comparison websites and product reviews of uncertain provenance. It's also a subscription-funded organisation making the tricky transition from print magazine to web. It does not, unfortunately, rule the world. The left and right alike promote the same fantasy of bottom-up people power, whereas what we really need are regulators with teeth to implement the results of expert testing. Capitalism pretends it's a bustling marketplace with plucky little entrepreneurs, jostling for your precious pound. The exaggeration of consumer power reinforces this fiction. The reality is the cartel and the monopoly. Capitalism is too embarrassed to admit that regulation doesn't stifle competition, it enables it. The coalition is forever claiming that real power is wielded not by big corporations but by big government. When it replaced the Food Standards Agency with the public health responsibility deal , it called for an end to \"top-down lectures\". This sounds egalitarian, but it's corporations, not individuals, that are being let off the hook. Funding for trading standards has been cut by nearly half in the past two years. If we put our faith in \"digital democracy\" and ignore the removal of statutory protections, we will end up as disempowered consumers, not citizens at all. A survey this month that found almost 40% of a large sample of food wasn't what it claimed to be was revealed not through a crowdsourced Twitter campaign, but by scientists at West Yorkshire public laboratory. If the seething rage of a million consumers, the expertise of Which? and the aggregating potential of the internet were combined, it would produce a formidable force. I'm thinking Groupon, the web company that helps people club together for discounted deals for the 99%. But it would require organisation. Authority can be radical, even when it's about testing toasters.",
  "title": "Why we still need Which? | Eliane Glaser",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "money/consumer-affairs",
    "money/money",
    "money/consumer-rights-money",
    "environment/corporatesocialresponsibility",
    "business/business",
    "environment/environment",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/consumer-magazines",
    "society/society",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Eliane Glaser: The prevailing myth of consumer clout distracts us from the reality of cartel and monopoly",
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/feb/25/which-consumer-clout-cartel-monopoly",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}