{
  "content": "Google's latest wheeze, Street View, is a Google Maps enhancement that lets you zoom in on a street-level photo of neighbourhoods. Think Google Earth, but close-up and photographed from the roof of a car with a built-in camera. So far, only New York, San Francisco and three other US cities are covered, but the company intends to expand its range. Naturally, half NYC duly typed in their address and the location of their favourite deli. Some of them were delighted to find themselves helping to pioneer the latest GoogleGadget. Others were distinctly nonplussed. One San Franciscan objected that her cat was visible through the window; others stumbled upon the kind of jolly snaps we normally rely on paparazzi to provide - thongs climbing into cars, blokes caught short on the freeway and \"someone making a phone call\". Already, a dedicated blog is monitoring these transgressions for the public's edification. So far, so innocuous. \"How long 'til this stuff is live video?\" asked one blogger. \"Would it be more/less evil if it were [the] CIA?\" wondered BoingBoing. Street View introduces several very intriguing new dimensions into the privacy debate. Firstly, unlike CCTV, GSV is not intended to deter or solve crime. Importantly, the snapshots are undated (unless, of course, a clock is visible). Secondly, they are accessible to the public. If Google watched you, then you can see what Google saw. Thirdly, if you consider Google has breached your privacy then you can ask the company to remove the picture. \"Objectionable imagery includes nudity, certain types of locations (for example, domestic violence shelters) and clearly identifiable individuals, if those individuals request takedown,\" a Google employee wrote in an email to CNBC. Very considerate. But just consider the implications of that offer. Unlike Wikipedia, this record can't be edited anonymously. If you are snapped going into a gay bar, or into a fertility clinic, or doing a Marilyn Monroe above a ventilation shaft, you must email Google and ask them to remove the picture. In doing so you will have confirmed that you did indeed visit that location and acknowledged that your presence there is something you wish to keep secret. Is that information that you really want to share with Google's entire userhelp staff? Thought not. Of course, a lawyer would be pleased to send a \u00a3200 letter explaining that \"my client, who wishes to remain anonymous\" wants a picture removed. But will Google demand to know why? What will be the exact criteria for removal? Taking a case-by-case approach is not good enough. The search engine is entering deep waters that it will find a lot harder to chart than Manhattan. Nor is it clear what Street View is for. Sure, it can be useful to have a photo of a shopfront when you're trying to find it. But Google Maps does a fine job of mapping cities and issuing foolproof directions. This is no killer application. That's part of what makes Street View so instructive. It is an aggressive reminder of the degree of covert and overt surveillance in cities. (Is it more or less intrusive than carrying around an RFID tag that records your every movement on public transport, for example?) It heralds the end of the short-lived era when an individual could monitor their public profile by Googling themselves and tweaking their MySpace profile. And it marks the moment when Google began trawling the streets for images as well as the web for words. I may visit you a dozen times a day, Google, but I don't remember your asking me whether I wanted that. Perhaps that's the thing that really freaks me out about GSV: that a search engine I imagined to be at my disposal just hired a car and started taking photographs. Councils do it, shops do it, railway stations do it, and now Google does it too - and just for the hell of it, really. Now that's what I call chutzpah.",
  "title": "Up your street?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "business/business",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/google"
  ],
  "lead": "Ros Taylor: Google's latest imaging project is raising hackles about privacy, but it's also a reminder we are being watched all the time.",
  "id": "commentisfree/2007/jun/04/upyourstreet",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}