{
  "content": "Three of America's leading entrepreneurs involved in the fusion of politics, social networking and digital news are joining forces to launch a start-up media company that aims to spread progressive content virally through the internet. Chris Hughes, the co-founder of Facebook who acted as Barack Obama's digital guru during the 2008 election, is clubbing together with Eli Pariser, a force behind the left-wing online campaign network MoveOn, and Peter Koechley, former editor of the satirical magazine the Onion, to form what they describe as a \"viral media start-up\". The triumvirate are declining to give any details about their new baby, beyond snippets of information contained in job postings they have put out this week. The postings reveal that the aim of the venture is to \"spread important, compelling ideas to hundreds of millions of people online and make being a progressive fun again.\" They appear to be hoping to create a multi-lingual web operation that will combine the latest web wizardry with left-of-centre news judgment. \"We believe that the media company of the future will be as much a tech company as an editorial process,\" the job postings say. The start-up will be focused squarely in the progressive political realm, but aim to fuse political savviness with what the three describe as \"immediate emotional resonance\" based on great visual content. Vague though the plans remain, the coming together of such powerhouses as Hughes and Pariser is likely to make the launch a media event that will be watched closely both by political and new media pundits. Hughes worked with Mark Zuckerberg while at Harvard to found Facebook and then went on to run MyBarackObama.com during the 2008 presidential race. In 2010 he started Jumo, a philanthropic social network that seeks to connect individuals with good causes. Pariser is president of the board of the liberal political network MoveOn.org that wields considerable influence among Democratic politicians and voters. He is author of the Filter Bubble, which argues that personalisation on the web is having a fragmenting effect in which an individual's world view is reinforced and rendered increasingly narrow and restricted. Whether his new venture combats or contributes to that bubble remains to be seen. The start-up has the working title of Cloud Tiger Media. It is advertising for a core team of five managers and editors, working virtually and backed up by interns. It hopes to create a product \"that users love and that makes a dent in the universe\".",
  "title": "Titans of social networking and left politics unite to form media start-up",
  "lead": "Facebook co-founder joins MoveOn president and former Onion editor to create viral network devoted to progressive causes",
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "us-news/us-politics",
    "technology/facebook",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2011/dec/15/facebook-the-onion-moveon-start-up-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}