{
  "content": "The news agency Reuters is trying out a Facebook-style networking and information website for businesses needing help tapping into overseas markets. In what will be a significant initiative departure if it comes to market, the global news and information company is working on a portal that will help link clothes factories in Britain with textiles firms in India, and chipmakers in China with gadget groups in Germany. The Insight service has 600 people registered for its test phase - half of them in Britain - and aims to end up with more than 1,000. Reuters, which has seen its core financial markets business come up against stiff competition from its US rival Bloomberg, is looking at the potential for subscription and advertising revenues from the service but is most excited about the prospects for the question-and-answer element. The project's managing director, Heidi Birkin, calls the Q&amp;A service a \"snack-size consulting business\". The questions span a wide range of topics from \"How do I find a good plywood supplier?\" to \"How do you think China will deal with the carbon emissions issue?\" she says. Those who cannot afford pricey consultancy work may find the service invaluable, she predicts. Business groups and government agencies are also upbeat about the prospects for better overseas ties. Malcolm Gresty, from Manchester's inward investment agency Midas, says businesses to which he has promoted the Reuters trial are keen to tap into the news group's staff in 200 offices across the world. \"The idea of having a sympathetic ear and knowledgeable ear in the Reuters' bureaux worldwide seemed to be a great attraction,\" he said. JohnsonDiversey, a US cleaning products firm, is among those trying the new scheme. Andy Symmonds, who runs its export operations in south-east Europe, says if the product goes live he would subscribe for a \"reasonable price\". His group is trying to expand further in emerging markets such as Albania and Croatia, and the Reuters daily news feed service has opened up potential new contracts. For example, a news story alerted him to the fact that a client wanted to set up businesses in Serbia and Croatia. The move into serving a new type of business customer as well as its core clients on trading floors comes out of Reuters' year-old innovations unit. Designed to find new revenue streams for the 156-year-old company, the unit has experimented with a number of schemes and was behind Reuters' high-profile move into the online world Second Life. Akin somewhat to the business start-up show Dragon's Den, the unit pitches new ideas to a \"venture board\" chaired by Reuters chief executive, Tom Glocer. Among other projects, Reuters is testing a service in India to help farmers judge when best to harvest and sell produce by texting weather forecasts and crop prices to their phones.",
  "title": "Networking site among agency's projects to find new markets",
  "lead": "The news agency Reuters is trying out a Facebook-style networking website for businesses tapping into overseas markets. By Katie Allen",
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "business/business",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/web20",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/reuters"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2007/may/08/news.newmedia",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}