{
  "content": "I seem to spend a disproportionate amount of time convincing education leaders and sceptical teachers that the net is no more evil than the \"real\" world in which our children live. For today's British teens, the least happy in Europe no less, according to this year's Unicef report, it might actually be more comfortable living online than out in the cold. Yet as adults we persist in our desires to lock down, block or generally put down any point of self-expression on the web, especially if it's one that's fun, popular and used by teens. These attitudes might change for some in Edinburgh, though, since, at the beginning of this month, a campaign secretly run through the Bebo site helped save 22 capital schools from closure. It seems the Bebo boomers might have more to offer than Luddite leaders at the council had thought. However, within hours of hearing that 22 of their schools could be closed down, Sarah, who enjoys \"Sittin with my friends gettin drunk again on wine ... ,\" had set up the Bebo group Save Edinburgh Schools, a city-wide thinktank and activist group rolled into one. Within two weeks, they had organised enough demos and petitions through the site to reverse the council decision. I imagine the news reporters and school managers had images of elaborate telephone trees leading to the \"spontaneous\" demos at the City Chambers. Little did they know, it appears, that the Bebo boomers under their charge had been passing messages to each other in class, not on paper but electronically. Sam, a final year student at Wester Hailes Education Centre (WHEC), marked for closure last month and now saved, is one of many highly literate commenters. There is very little txt spk here and he uses emotive arguments that wouldn't be out of place in prime minister's questions: \"WHEC is the only school that lets the young mums that have been thrown out of the original schools come and carry on their education ... Although WHEC doesn't look as good as the rest and is in a bad area from the others around it the kids are happy and have got a great bond with the teachers. I am proud of my skl and I WILL fight to keep it open.\" Today at Channel 4's In The Wild event in Glasgow, as a fringe attraction to the 6000-odd Scottish Learning Festival goers, educators, students, decision-makers and media representatives will be trying to work out what makes UK children the least happy in Europe. I'm not alone in reckoning that it might be down, in large part, to the fact that \"them groan ups\" seem hell-bent on closing off anything fun that they don't understand themselves. Bebo, the teenagers' social network of choice, is normally banned outright in most schools and flocks of parents generally ram their heads in the sand when asked how they engage with their teens on the site. It's not just disgruntled school children spending their evenings in front of the screen to save their schools, between drawing obscenities on their friends' walls and \"sharing the luv.\" Teachers and even union reps have got in on the act on their own, more \"grown up\" social network: Facebook. Here a more grown up grouping of teachers and former pupils of the schools did their bit to save the schools, no doubt, between virtual food fights, zombie attacks and offering each other fish for their virtual aquariums. Rami Okasha, an area officer with the EIS Teachers' union, started the Stop The Cuts group on Facebook, successfully garnering over 400 users at its height, and sending hundreds through to the Downing Street petitions site. Yet some parts of the education establishment and Scotland's main educational newspaper, the TESS, would have you believe that social networking really is a flash-in-the-pan fad. This week Tom Conlon brushes off anyone without their own newspaper column to make their points, however brilliant or dull they may be: \"it is a mistake to take the bloggers too seriously.\" It's almost certainly a mistake not to take the bloggers much more seriously. The baby boomers made their protests in person, face-to-face, dressed in hippy clothes and relying on mainstream media and television to get their protest across. They now write letters to the paper, or fastidious newspaper columns. The Bebo boomers need none of that. They dress in school uniform, carry out their days as normal and are activists from their bedrooms. They write what they want, when they want. Reputation comes not from just existing online, but from flourishing online. When the council return to the question of shutting down more schools later this year, I wonder if their decision will settle once and for all whether this \"new media\" is just a passing fad or something more profound for the teens of today, the decision-makers of tomorrow?",
  "title": "Bebo boomers make a stand",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "education/education",
    "uk/scotland",
    "technology/bebo",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Ewan McIntosh: Social networking has helped students in Scotland to get their voices heard and save their schools from closure.",
  "id": "commentisfree/2007/sep/19/beboboomersmakeastand",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}