{
  "content": "For the next five weeks, newspapers, current affairs magazines and TV channels will be dominated by election coverage. But alongside the speech writeups, campaign trail photo ops and highbrow analysis, many news organisations are trying out new digital approaches to covering the election. These broadly fall into two camps: social media-friendly, light-hearted coverage of the campaign's ups and downs on the one hand, and more data-heavy analysis of how the race is going on the other. Both reflect a realisation that many people are switched off by the predictable theatre of the campaign and the way it's covered, coupled with an enthusiasm for using digital tools to do a better job of reaching them. \"When general elections come round, a lot of thought is given to engaging audiences,\" says Sky News digital editor Neil Dunwoodie. \"Yes there are aficionados, but there are people for whom this is not a big dominating thing. \"In 2010 people were saying it's going to be the digital election. It wasn't in the end, it was all about the Gillian Duffy moment, the leaders debates, the TV thing. Now we are all very aware this will be the first proper digital media election. \"People will be looking at our stuff not necessarily on the TV but on digital devices and we need to offer them something on those devices.\" Sky is working on a slew of different ways to develop its election coverage, including interactive games, a poll tracker and live coverage of 270 declarations. But one of its smaller projects is the most radical departure from the norm. Last week Sky News unveiled Biffed, a micro-site in development since October featuring short, often satirical articles and videos about the election. Recent headlines include \"Lord Ashcroft quits the Lords, presumably after a poll told him to\" and \"Nigel Farage to take on Judge Dredd\". Biffed follows hard on the heels of Sunnation, launched last month by the Sun. As TheSun.co.uk editor Tim Gatt said at the time, the project was in part driven by the knowledge that \"politics can be quite dry and people find it quite hard to engage with\". Sunnation isn't much older than Biffed, and despite opening with a \"Cam Cam\" video exclusive following the prime minister around No 10, hasn't made a huge splash on social media yet. However, a spokesperson claims it has reached millions of people across all the platforms it publishes on. Neither project is reinventing the wheel, and neither Sky nor the Sun are sure what will happen to the sites after 7 May. Both are experiments, testing out ways of talking about the election, and of talking to an online audience who are unlikely to pick up a newspaper or sit through hours of rolling news. At the other end of the spectrum are the data-heavy projects, many focused on polling data and new ways of aggregating, interpreting and presenting it. The Guardian, for example, has built its own model for combining polls, and has a dedicated polling page using graphics to show both its current prediction for the makeup of parliament on 8 May and who the parties are losing seats to. \"There are individuals who are interested in polls all the time, but most people aren't interested in polling per se, they are interested in who's winning right now \u2013 polls are the best way of telling you that,\" says data editor Alberto Nardelli. \"The way you present things is very important, because you are trying to communicate lots of things in the most simple and visually meaningful way so that anyone who looks at it immediately understands.\" Meanwhile, the New Statesman has built a spin-off site concentrating almost exclusively on polling data, called May 2015, which evolved out of a pitch by Harry Lambert, who became the site's editor on launch last September. \"Sites like ours who do polls and predictions, are becoming much more central to the way news organisations report events and the run of the campaign. We've been shocked how much the whole election feels like people sitting around waiting for polls to come out. Is it a digital election? It's certainly the one in which more polling is obsessed over and that all happens online.\" \"On both sides, data and fun stuff online, the human motivation and typical incentives of the industry haven't changed. The Sun are doing things very much like the Sun have done things in print. It's just a new way of doing it.\" Despite targeting a very specific niche, Lambert says May 2015 pulled in more than 280,000 unique users over the past month. The Independent is using May 2015's poll of polls on its election coverage. Also launched last summer, the Times's Red Box project is built around a daily email newsletter and a partnership with pollsters YouGov. \"The Times has got a huge amount of really experienced and knowledgable comment writers,\" says its digital news development editor Joseph Stashko. \"The chance to use that with really good data from YouGov was a really good opportunity. Data journalism has the potential to be slightly dry, we don't want to do that in isolation, we want to do both.\" Another outlet trying to marry the data-driven approach with more traditional analysis is the Economist, which has launched its own poll of polls coupled with detailed backgrounders on policy issues. For deputy editor Tom Standage news organisations need to use new digital tools to get the attention of an audience disengaged from politics. \"We are all trying to find new ways to engage audiences and it's a particularly tall order with politics because most people feel politicians are disconnected and 'they are all the same why should I vote',\" he says. \"Digital technology gives you lots and lots of ways to come at a story.\" As all these established media outlets experiment digitally, the new media outlets many look to for inspiration are also developing their own approaches to elections. However, BuzzFeed UK deputy editor and politics lead Jim Waterson says the startup's approach to getting people to engage online builds on very traditional approaches to journalism. \"The best way to get traffic is to get something no one else has, which can be the presentation or an original line. We are happy to send our reporters anywhere in the country, with a professional photographer. If you format it right for the web you can get a lot of traffic. We had Vince Cable ballroom dancing \u2013 something weirdly traditional but with the web in mind.\" Finding that balance between digital savvy and traditional election reporting will be preoccupying UK media organisations all the way up to 7 May and beyond.",
  "title": "From laughs to stats: the fresh digital approach to election coverage",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/sky-news",
    "media/tvnews",
    "media/bskyb",
    "media/television",
    "media/media",
    "media/sun",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/general-election-2015"
  ],
  "lead": "News organisations are seeking more innovative ways to attract online audiences and engage the electorate",
  "id": "media/2015/apr/05/engage-electorate-online-audiences",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}