{
  "content": "Last year Instagram shook the social media world by announcing its step into the murky world of digital advertising. Photo feeds, previously untainted by anything other than an innocent Valencia or Earlybird filter, were now to be littered with images of Rimmel nail varnish and still lifes of Waitrose products. Instagrammers and social media commentators were predictably quick to cry out, vowing never to use the photo-sharing app again. Despite the tantrums, Instagram continues to grow and in December it reached more than 300 million users (more than Twitter). This may have been helped by the app's cautious approach to advertising, with only a handful of companies being given ad space in the UK. However Instagram is now opening up advertising to all businesses, big and small, meaning more money for the company and more ads for users. Is this the beginning of the end for the app or a positive step into monetisation? Aware that I bear the responsibility of being a \"voice for my generation\" on this topic, I've done some extensive research (erm, a few tweets and a Facebook post) to gauge how my fellow \"millennials\" are feeling about all this. Inevitably, some aren't happy. Many \"grammers\" enjoy the curated aspect of the app; you choose who you want to follow and therefore have creative control over the look of your feed. Lily, a 25-year-old photographer from London, likes this element: \"You can follow 1,000 people and have a huge feed or 20 and have a tiny one,\" she said. \"Having loads of ads would be changing what you choose to see.\" Instagram's streamlined aesthetic is what makes it the \"cool kid\" of social media. Facebook's steady fall from cool isn't just down to Mums posting updates of their latest Lidl bargains. It's also a direct result of the aggressive move into digital advertising. Users' feeds are no longer a display of what their friends are up to; they're a minefield of creepy targeted ads that sit just outside the sphere of relevance to you. Just because my friend likes O2, doesn't mean I do. Will Instagram follow suit? After all, it has announced that its ads will become far more targeted, taking user-interest, age and gender into account. Instagram will also be using (dun-dun-duuuuun) Facebook's behavioural ad-profiling technology, meaning it will be able to mine all of Facebook's data on you as well as its own. Surely this spells the end of Instagram's place at the top of millennials' fave apps list? I don't think so. In fact, I would go so far as to say that I'm in favour of Insta-ads. For one, most millennials are immune to this kind of advertising. The majority of people I spoke to hadn't even noticed the current ads on their feeds. Mac, 25, from London, said he's becoming \"numb\" to targeted digital ads; he just expects it as part of the social media experience. Even though my peers claim ad-resistance, Instagram has boasted that campaigns run on the network are 2.9 times more successful than standard online ads. Maybe this is because Instagram is in fact a great place to advertise. The app's strict creative policy means that adverts become so native they blend into the rest of users' feeds \u2013 currently made up of images from the brands, celebrities, restaurants and bloggers they choose to follow. In reality, Instagram's already one big marketing machine. It's just that users have control over what they're exposed to. Yes I know this loss of control is the issue but at least the adverts are getting smarter. I've accepted by now that, as a user of social media and a citizen of a consumerism-driven society, I'm going to be advertised to, so I may as well be inundated with relevant ads. I'd much rather be shown a photo of a trainer than one espousing the benefits of Wellwoman. But, most of all, I applaud Instagram for beginning to take monetisation seriously. It may be owned by Facebook and therefore free from the immediate pressure of making revenue, but let's not forgot the hefty $1 billion price tag the social media giant placed on it. Instagram's one of the biggest tech companies in the world; it's got a huge valuation and probably burns through a considerable amount of cash but is yet to make much money. It's this kind of behaviour that we should be worried about. Only last week, Snapchat's CEO, Evan Spiegel, warned of the inevitability of the tech bubble bursting. If tech companies neglect monetisation, we millennials are in for a rocky ride over the next decade or so. I don't know about you, but I think I'd take a few ads in my Instagram feed over the collapse of Silicon Valley any day. Grace Regan is co-founder and chief executive of Clippet To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media and Tech Network membership. All Guardian Media and Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \"Brought to you by\" \u2013 find out more here.",
  "title": "A millennial's verdict on Instagram ads",
  "lead": "Some might resent the imminent influx of more ads into their feeds but how else will the app make money?",
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "technology/instagram",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/snapchat",
    "media/advertising",
    "media/media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media-network/2015/jun/09/instagram-advertising-a-millennials-verdict",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}