{
  "content": "The Radio 1 DJ, Sarah Cox, is to complain to the press complaints commission about the Sunday People after the paper published nude photographs of her and her new husband on their honeymoon in the Seychelles. Cox's manager, Melanie Coupland, described the photographs as \"one of the worst examples of invasion of privacy I have ever seen\". Ms Coupland said she would strongly advise her client to bring a privacy lawsuit against the paper. A series of photographs showed Cox, who presents the Radio 1 Breakfast Show, and Jon Carter, a club DJ, at their villa and on the beach. In most of the pictures, the pair are naked although, in the beach photograph, they are semi-clothed. \"We are not going to take this lying down,\" said Ms Coupland. \"Sarah is still away on holiday and I just hope she hasn't seen the photographs. \"The paper claims the pictures were taken by holidaymakers but they would need to have had a very strong telephoto lens,\" she added. The success of previous cases of this kind have depended on whether the complainants were in a public place when they were photographed. The journalist and newsreader, Anna Ford, complained to the PCC earlier this year about pictures taken of her and her family on a beach. Her complaint was rejected on the grounds the beach was overlooked by apartments and, therefore, could be classed as a public place. Ford appealed against the adjudication in the high court but the judge threw out her bid to have the PCC's ruling overturned. Ms Coupland said she was confident Cox and Carter could establish they were on private premises. She said she would advise the couple to take out a privacy lawsuit under the new European Human Rights Act if lawyers advised it were possible. \"There was one picture of them on the beach and about half a dozen of them naked, getting in and out of their jacuzzi,\" Ms Coupland said. Jason Fraser, the well-known paparazzo, whose agency was credited as the source of the photographs, was unavailable for comment. The Sunday People was recently forced to pay compensation and to publish an apology to Ben Elliot, the nephew of Camilla Parker Bowles, after falsely identifying him as the man in a set of paparazzi pictures. The photographs, published in August, showed Jade Jagger and a man frolicking naked on a public beach in Ibiza.",
  "title": "Cox to complain to PCC",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/thepeople",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/pcc",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": " Radio 1 DJ Sarah Cox is to challenge the Sunday People after it published pictures of her and her husband on their honeymoon, reports Jessica Hodgson",
  "id": "media/2001/oct/15/thepeople.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}