{
  "content": "Social media networks, such as Twitter, dominated foreign media coverage of the disputed presidential election in Iran and its aftermath. But for many news organisations, it was the unusually repressive reporting restrictions that were most notable. Ben de Pear, the foreign editor of Channel 4 News, says the mainstream media have been grappling with tougher reporting restrictions in Iran than they faced during last year's Zimbabwean elections. \"In Zimbabwe, journalists were allowed to continue reporting and move around, albeit at their own risk. In Iran, they have been less able to move around so you are more reliant on citizen journalism. \"The big story of the Iranian election is that we still don't know what the result is. In Zimbabwe, we had enough leaks of information to judge the outcome and the hundreds of people killed and thousands locked up told their own story. \" Censorship is meant to be forbidden under the Iranian constitution but President Ahmadinejad has required all foreign journalists to get a special press card from the ministry of culture and Islamic guidance to work in Iran. Foreign journalists who need translators must use those employed by official agencies who are obliged to report where they go, who they meet and who they interview. Foreign journalists must also apply for permission to report on the streets to do vox pops or go to the parliament with each activity requiring different documentation. During the Iranian election campaign, many foreign reporters were surprised by the access they were given to the candidates and the freedom of the people to air their views. Tony Maddox, the managing director of CNN international, says: \"Television coverage in Iran is always very restricted. But during the election campaign we had remarkable access. People were not afraid to be critical of the way the country was run.\" But the mood changed once Ahmadinejad was declared the victor on 13 June. Peter Horrocks, the director of the BBC World Service, accused the Iranian authorities of attempting to block the broadcast of the corporation's Persian channel in the Middle East. \"Our main satellite into Iran has been obliterated,\" he says. \"If there's less contentious content on, such as sport, the jamming stops. If pictures of the demos come on it's switched back up.\" The BBC plans to increase the number of satellites it uses to transmit its Persian television news service in a bid to overcome the restrictions. In Tehran, the BBC's John Simpson and his BBC cameraman were briefly arrested, as was a Channel 4 cameraman, while Bill Neely, the international editor at ITN, and his cameraman were beaten with batons by riot police while filming a march and briefly detained. Neely, who left Iran when his press visa expired last week, says he felt \"incredibly vulnerable\" because Iranian officials were blaming the protests on foreign journalists. \"These are extremely nasty people who see you as a threat to the system,\" says Neely. \"A guy from an American network was taken from his bureau with a local Iranian journalist by men on motorbikes. He was put in a car and blindfolded and taken to a building his captors called a 'hotel'. He was beaten and had Taser guns used on him. He spent many hours there then was taken to another place and placed in a cell, where he was accused of being a spy. He was released but was still very shaken up when I spoke to him.\" The Tuesday after the election foreign journalists were banned from reporting on the streets. The website IranMania announced it was ending its political news coverage because \"it has become virtually impossible to provide independent news from official sources. Our primary concern is the safety of our staff.\" Hard news The restrictions have meant the news agency Agence FrancePresse has had to buy and source many of its pictures from Iranian state media, including Press TV and the Fars news agency. Louis-Marie Tattevin, AFP's chief editor for the Middle East, says the volume of copy produced by his Tehran bureau has been \"very reduced\". \"What's suffering are the features, the colour, going out talking to the people going about day-to-day life. Everything's been focused on hard news - the protests.\" A source at Press TV, which is funded by the Iranian government, says its staff have been surprised that the station has not capitalised on its access. \"This is a great opportunity for Press TV - we can get the best analysis but we're simply reporting the facts.\" Unlike in its coverage of Gaza and the Middle East peace process, the station's overseas hubs, including those in London and New York, are not doing any analysis of the election. Roshan Muhammed Salih, the head of news at Press TV's London bureau, admits the channel's coverage is \"a bit short on analysis\". But he says this is because as a state-funded broadcaster it is subject to Iranian election law, which bars it from siding with candidates because the election is still in dispute. De Pear says the biggest challenge facing journalists trying to investigate the election result is that the centre of power in Iran is \"almost entirely closed off\". He adds: \"There's a closed box at the centre of the story that no one - either inside or outside of Iran - has been able to open.\"",
  "title": "An analysis of the tight restrictions that have stifled media coverage in Iran",
  "lead": "Tight restrictions have stifled media coverage and made it difficult to get to the root of the story",
  "tags": [
    "media/press-freedom",
    "media/news-agencies",
    "media/tvnews",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "world/iran",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2009/jun/22/iran-elections-twitter-news-agencies",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}