{
  "content": "FASHION DILEMMA Should fashion and Twitter ever mix? Sometimes Fashion Statement pines for the good old days when it didn't have to hear celebrity opinions straight from the horse's mouth. Remember them? When fashionistas had mystique, when you didn't know that Karl Lagerfeld dreams of transparent fur, that Carine Roitfeld's head resembles a Chinese fortune cookie factory, or just how heavy Alexa Chung's designer-packed suitcase is. Was it not enough to have their cellulite papped for every weekly magazine and their every facial expression analysed by \"body language experts\" (\"From the position of her arms, it's obvious that Jennifer Anniston is single, lonely and pining desperately for a child!\"). No, now we actually want to know what they really THINK. Well, be careful what you wish for: it'll involve far more tedious musings on flight delays and pet dogs than anyone could possibly want to hear, even in fewer than 140 characters. And for our celebrity, er, heroes, it turns out that the horse's mouth has a tendency to bite. That old chestnut, \"I've been terribly misquoted\", doesn't work when you were quoting yourself. And so it is that our beloved fashionistas find themelves in rather hot water. Courtney Love (don't snigger, she's a fashionista of sorts) has had her Twitter feed removed after unleashing a particularly charming tirade of abuse at a fashion designer, Dawn Simorangkir, who not unreasonably wanted to be paid for some clothes she'd supplied. The latter is now suing in a landmark case. This, of course, is not the first time that Courtney has used Twitter for nefarious purposes. See here. And here. Hmm, spotting a pattern? And it's not just Courtney. Liz Hurley (Twitter biography: \"Mum, Model, Actress, Bikini Designer, Organic Farmer\". Sample tweet: \"Reading a book about keeping parrots\") may be in trouble with the Office of Fair Trading, which is looking into whether she was paid to tweet glowing endorsements of particular beauty products (we assume she can't bring herself to tweet about her own fruit bars). Presumably any court action would imply that the public should be aware that celebrities are paid to endorse/advertise this product. To which FS responds: What, you thought they were doing it out of the goodness of their hearts? Henry Holland (Sample tweet: \"Men in bootcut jeans offend me\") was just so overcome by his love for Range Rover that he decided to SHOUT IT TO THE HILLTOPS? Is anyone really that naive? And if they are, can FS give them a big, soothing hug? BANG ON TREND Retro skiwear FS is wallowing in nostalgia this week. Though can you wallow in nostalgia for something you've never done or seen? Probably not, and since FS has never been skiing, the odds of us actually sporting any of these items on a slope are pretty darn small. So consider this not so much as actual skiwear - if you do need that, you might find this article helpful - more as a cosy vision of a winter holiday, where we skip through pristine piles of white snow (which has, in our fantasy, not disrupted a single journey on public transport) and sip hot chocolate in our chalet before heading to the hot springs for some wallowing. Firstly, we will be donning our knitted miniskirt (in fantasy snow land, our legs are, naturally, perfect) from Reluxe. The brand has a variety of styles but FS particularly likes the fairisle knit (\u00a341.65, on sale). Underneath your mini you will, of course, be sporting some cosy tights - FS highly recommends Falke for their lovely, and amazingly long-lasting, merino ones (\u00a319 at figleaves.com). One of the rare instances where we will tell you that spending more is really worth it. Fabulous fairisle is also to be found at People Tree with this lovely cardigan, which when you are back in the real world would also look great with jeans (\u00a366). Snow generally means a nip in the air, so to keep toasty and warm, FS recommends Howies or Finisterre merino layers (from \u00a325). For more warmth, you could go for a jumper/coat hybrid. Not very handy if you are trying to fit it under a jacket, we admit, but lovely and cosy indoors. We like this pleasingly retro coatigan (we didn't make up the name, promise) from Upper Fifth (\u00a355 on sale). Or you could take the whole snow knitwear thing a bit more literally with a snowflake jumper from Topshop (\u00a325, on sale) - it also looks like it might have been given to you at Christmas by a knitting great aunt. In a good way. A more simple, useful longline cardigan can be found at Asos (\u00a340) - it'll go with anything from dresses to a top and jeans. FS also loves this rather more eyecatching cardigan from Marc by Marc Jacobs, and hey, if you have the money to spend \u00a3345 on a cardigan in January (or at any time of the year), lucky you. Finally, now that you are all togged up in your cosy knits and retro fairisle prints, you'll be needing some food. Specifically, a fondue set. Happy pretend holidays! FASHIONISTA OF THE WEEK Livia Firth No, not that chap on the left, he's just some actor. Next to him is the lovely Livia Firth, who is once again taking up her green carpet challenge - trying to do the entire awards season (and Colin may just be invited to one or two bashes) in ethical and sustainable outfits. Hooray for her. This particular frock is the work of ethical fashion pioneers Junky Styling, who recut one of Colin's old suits to make it. If they gave Oscars for style, she'd be a shoo-in. FASHION GRAVEYARD Rosamund Pike Rosamund Pike is slightly scaring us in this Christopher Kane frock. The leather is a little bit too tight, the hair is a little bit too big, and the print reminds us a little bit too much of cheaply produced sci-fi novels. If you turned her round, it would probably say \"ROSAMUND PIKE\" in big gold raised lettering on the back. QUOTE OF THE WEEK Women have turned themselves into these bubble-butted, grapefruit-titted, bloated-mouthed cyberbitches. I'm just not into that. Tom Ford, proud owner of a new womenswear collection, and always ready with a charming quote. OUT AND ABOUT Fancy having your feet nibbled by fish - but don't have the funds to head to the Amazon and get friendly with piranhas? Fear not! Fishy friends are in town. The Margaret Dabbs Sole Spa at Liberty will be offering a relaxing space in which a team of Garra Rufa fish - surely pursuers of one of nature's most disgusting diets - will nibble the dead skin off your feet. Ugh. Liberty, Marlborough Street, London W1B 5AH, 020 7494 4492, liberty.co.uk Crafty types in Glasgow - head to Make it Glasgow to learn new techniques and have a rather nice coffee while you're at it. Upcoming events include a crochet workshop and a cushion cover tutorial. 3 Osborne Street, Merchant City, Glasgow G1 5RB, 07597 122 809, makeitglasgow.co.uk SHOPPING NEWS FS has long lusted after a pair of made-to-measure Hetty Rose shoes. Made from reworked vintage materials, frequently old kimonos, the designs are pretty darn special. Good news for our wallet, then, that the designer has branched out into a less pricey ready-to-wear range - the shoes are, admittedly, still costly at around \u00a3200 a pair, but then they are handmade and oh-so-ethical. FS has sung the praises before of the Damsel in a Dress collection sold at John Lewis - limited edition but affordable pieces, great for special occasions. The company has now launched its very own website where you can buy online. FS particularly likes the Sienna wrap-style dress in red. Love a design collaboration? Ann-Sofie Back will be returning with a fourth collection for Topshop this month. It draws direct inspiration from her mainline collection (at a fraction of the price, hooray!) and includes striped jersey pieces and everyday staples like T-shirts, leggings and jersey dresses - all with a sometimes quite literal twist. Prices from \u00a335, hits stores and online on 27 January. topshop.co.uk OFFCUTS Sunday's Golden Globes ceremony will kick off the awards season. Here are Jess Cartner-Morley's red-carpet fashion predictions. Find out how to get the new French Vogue look. Check out the designer men's knitwear look, then find out where to shop for it on the high street. For all the latest fashion news, visit guardian.co.uk/fashion. News to tell us? Email kate.carter@guardian.co.uk. Follow us on Twitter Additional research by Kim Lomax",
  "title": "Fashion Statement: Should fashion and Twitter ever mix?",
  "lead": "Courtney Love and Liz Hurley are having a spot of bother with Twitter. Kate Carter longs for the days when fashionistas had a bit of mystique",
  "tags": [
    "fashion/fashion",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "lifeandstyle/2011/jan/13/fashion-statement-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}