{
  "content": "The cyber-attack phenomenon continued unabated this week, despite increasing public awareness and government scrutiny. From the well-documented hack into Sony's PlayStation network earlier this year to the revelation that even the venerable CIA is no match against shadowy hackers, cyber-attacks are coming rapidly, and generally without warning. The trend is disconcerting. Equally disturbing is the lack of transparent and timely disclosure by affected organisations. All too often, the public is left in the lurch about the impact on customer or citizen data and about what is being done to thwart future attacks. Unfortunately, the default response of aggrieved firms is often silence, followed slowly, at a trickling rate, by a few scant details. To be sure, cyber-attacks are nothing new. While hactivist groups like Anonymous and Lulz have gained international notoriety, following attacks on Sony, the US Senate and the CIA, the precursor to their work dates back to the 1960s, when \"phone freaks\" or \"phreakers\" used \"blue boxes\" as tone generators to make free phone calls. What was once considered a mere nuisance, at best, has become a huge problem for businesses and the public. This is further exacerbated because many firms treat their customers like pawns in a mounting game of showmanship against anonymous cyberpunks. Case in point: the Wall Street Journal reports that Citigroup waited three weeks before notifying its customers of a breach of its credit card network. It was only after heavy questioning by reporters \u2013 and equally damning inquiries from members of Congress \u2013 that Citigroup eventually revealed that up to 360,000 customers had been affected. Sony's response to multiple breaches of its PlayStation network is a prime example of what not to do when faced with a cybercrisis. The company committed its first of many public relations faux pas by waiting six days before disclosing a breach that ultimately affected data belonging to 100 million people. In a scene reminiscent of Toyota's disastrous 2010 recall response, Sony then engaged in a song-and-dance with Congress over key details of the hack, failing to take full responsibility for a breach of its own servers. Examples of an adeptly handled response to being hacked are few and far between. Google, rightly, received worldwide acclaim earlier this month after it quickly admitted a hack on its Gmail servers. But it remains a rare instance in an era of the \"no comment\" brigade of hacked firms. The need for increased disclosure is clear: cyber-attacks represent one of the greatest challenges facing modern businesses and are costly to economies and society alike. According to a 2004 report by the Congressional Research Service, targeted firms suffer an average loss in stockmarket valuation of between $50m (\u00a331m) and $200m (\u00a3124m), with total consumer and business losses estimated at more than $200bn (\u00a3124bn) per year. Targeted companies can regain some of this lost market value, and even enhance their brand's value \u2013 if they are smart in their communications. Lori Nugent, an attorney at Wilson Elser Moskowitz Edelman &amp; Dicker LLP, told the Wall Street Journal that if a breach is handled well, \"customer loyalty and your brand can actually improve.\" Most responses we have seen thus far, however, are desperately lacking any sense of this significance. Businesses and governments would be wise to heed Nugent's advice. According to the 2011 Edelman Trust Barometer, global trust in those institutions is woefully low, at just 56% for the former and a paltry 52% for the latter. American businesses have it even worse, at an all-time trust level low of 46%. Firms can reverse these numbers, but they must commit to principles that haven't always come naturally to big business: candour and transparency. We may never be able to eradicate the pernicious effects of cyber-attacks. But we can ensure the public is not victimised twice, by pushing for more timely and transparent disclosure from affected companies. Anything less allows the hackers to win, while we continue to lose.",
  "title": "Candour: the best defence against cyber-attack | Rosanna Fiske",
  "lead": "Rosanna Fiske: Firms need to realise that they only compound the problem of hackers' security breaches by mishandled, grudging disclosure",
  "tags": [
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "business/citigroup",
    "technology/sony",
    "us-news/cia",
    "us-news/us-congress",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world",
    "technology/anonymous",
    "technology/playstation"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/cifamerica/2011/jun/17/hacking-citigroup-cia-cyberattack",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}