{
  "content": "A major investigation is under way into how a data handling blunder by the NHS led to 800,000 people having their organ donation wishes incorrectly recorded. The NHS will contact approximately 20 families who allowed organs to be taken from loved ones after being misinformed about what consent had previously been given as a result of the decade-old error, according to the Sunday Telegraph. Of the individuals for whom data was wrongly recorded, 45 have now died. The errors affecting the UK organ donor list stretch back to 1999 but only came to light last year when NHS Blood and Transplant (NHSBT), which runs the organ donation register, wrote to new donors thanking them for joining the scheme and outlining what they had agreed to donate. But many of those contacted wrote back pointing out that the information was incorrect, resulting in the investigation. Donors can give permission for any of their organs to be taken, or provide more specific agreements. Consent is often not given for eyes to be removed or for bodies to be used in medical research. However, the distinctions were accidentally deleted in 1999, when information held by the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency \u2013 which includes a request for consent in applications for a driving licence \u2013 was transferred to the organ registry. After detecting the error, NHSBT was able to correct 400,000 of the flawed records. But hundreds of thousands more people are due to be contacted shortly and asked to confirm what consent has been provided. Until fresh consent is obtained, no organs will be taken from any of those people in the event of death. The law prohibits the removal of organs without prior consent from the person who died, or their next of kin. In the cases where mistakes were made, families are believed to have been asked for permission, but their decisions were made on the basis of misinformation about the wishes of their relatives. Joyce Robins of pressure group Patient Concern said: \"This government has got an absolutely dreadful record when it comes to data, but it is absolutely horrific that such sensitive details were handled in such a careless way.\" A spokeswoman for NHSBT said: \"We are aware of issues with the records with a small proportion of the people who signed up to the NHS organ donor register. We are taking it very seriously and are urgently investigating the situation. Our priority is in ensuring that the families of those who may have been affected are contacted.\" There was a 7% increase during 2008-2009 in the number of people signing on to the Organ Donor Register, to 27% of the population. However, the Organ Donation Taskforce has warned that the number of people requiring transplant surgery is increasing at a greater rate. Liberal Democrat health spokesman Norman Lamb said: \"This is a shocking failure of proper controls over organ donation. There needs to be a full inquiry. So long as the opt-in consent system is in place it is critical that everybody has confidence in the system.\"",
  "title": "NHS blunder misrecorded organ donors' wishes",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "society/organ-donation",
    "society/nhs",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "society/society",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Families allowed organs to be donated, after being given wrong information on what consent had been given",
  "id": "society/2010/apr/11/nhs-data-organ-transplants",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}