{
  "content": "At some point today, some grown-up type \u2013 usually, say, a mayor or a Prime Minister's wife \u2013 will proclaim the new show season open, resulting in a collective whoop of excitement and a week of dashing from venue to venue, from Friday through to Wednesday. Inevitably there'll clothes spotting, a lot of front row deconstruction, chandelier watching, trying not to go arse-over-tit on some backstage rigging, finding time to go to Pizza Express and all the while naturally looking as positively fresh and unflappably glamourous as possible. One of the most marvellous (and potentially hairy) things about fashion week is you never quite know what's going to happen, what you're going to love \u2013 balloons as headdresses were a pleasant surprise last season, thank you Louise Gray \u2013 and who's going to show what and to whom. However there are a few things that have got early fashion desk buzz and they are, drum roll if you please... 1. Matthew Williamson showing his spring 12 collection at the Tate Modern. Quite why no-one has staged a catwalk show at the Turbine Hall before is beyond us. Artiest outfits at the ready. Cue bemused tourists. 2. Apparently 2000+ people have requested tickets to see Jonathan Saunders follow up his mega hit autumn collection, which was hailed by most as London's highlight show back in February. Plus, Saunders has taken up the Erdem First Lady mantle - Samantha Cameron and Michelle Obama have both worn him. Oh and he's holding an after show party at the new Gordon Ramsay Bread restaurant. Bravo. 3. It's the fifth anniversary of Christopher Kane at London fashion week this year. In certain fashion circles \u2013 ie ours \u2013 he's often referred to as the new generation Mrs Prada thanks to his successful manner of u-turning from one thing to another every season and citing distinctive references that are always ahead of the curve. 4. Issa. Will Pippa be there? Probably not. Will we be mentally shopping for Kate? Totally yes. 5. J.W Anderson is roasting. As in, so hot he's fabulous. He does girls clothes with boyish tendencies and boyish clothes which are a tad girly. He's also ludicrously handsome etc 6. Latex. It's gonna be at House of Holland apparently. 7. 4D shows. That's where designers pump fragrance into the air. Meadham Kirchhoff are doing this with Penhaligon's apparently. And their collection is reportedly called A Wolf In Lamb's Clothing, which has piqued interest to say the least. 8. Giles. Last season the man delivered big time at the Royal Courts of Justice. This season he's sent out an invite, which is a metallic mask with tassels. What can it mean? 9. Questions being pondered with gusto: Will Cheryl Cole turn up to posh private members club Home House for a fashion bash on Monday? And will we get a glimpse of Beyonce and bump at the House of Dereon launch on Saturday night? 10. Oh, and will Toppers still have the best food? - See live coverage of London Fashion week, including live streaming of the shows, at guardian.co.uk/fashion from noon on Friday September 16. Follow us on Twittter and search for Guardian Fashion on Facebook to befriend us.",
  "title": "Hello London Fashion Week",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "fashion/london-fashion-week-spring-summer-2012",
    "fashion/fashion",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "fashion/london-fashion-week",
    "fashion/fashion-weeks",
    "technology/tumblr"
  ],
  "lead": "The shows kick off today! Guardian fashion will be there to cover all things Spring 2012 shaped - Follow live coverage of LFW at guardianfashion.tumblr.com",
  "id": "fashion/fashion-blog/2011/sep/15/london-fashion-week-live-on-the-guardian",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}