{
  "content": "Last week, the idea that public figures' personal lives should remain private suffered three new blows. As he confirmed that he has fathered five children, Ken Livingstone threw down a challenge to the media: \"If I had secrets that my family or my close friends didn't know about then that would be a different matter. But there's a difference between private and secret and I think the media's got to understand that.\" He may as well not have bothered. To the media, a \"secret\" is something that you don't want all over the papers. From the Sun to the Telegraph, Friday's papers described Ken's undeclared offpspring as \"secret\", even thought it appears to have been a fairly open secret. The Sun felt it justification enough that this information was \"previously unknown to the public\" and invited anyone who knew \"Red Ken's secret family\" to ring in. The London Evening Standard revealed that it knew about Ken's \"two secret families\" but had chosen not to publish the story. But it grumbled about a shot fox: \"Critics immediately suspected that the latest revelations about Mr Livingstone's family were a calculated attempt to pre-empt newspaper expos\u00e9s and prevent any further damage to his re-election bid.\" Meanwhile, the government has given into the press barons and dropped plans to stop journalists using the stolen personal information of famous people. David Leigh was very cross about this, pointing out that what was proposed was merely enforcing an existing law with the threat of jail. He told how Richard Thomas, the information commissioner, had been shocked by the data theft industry and lobbied for stiffer penalties. Earlier in the week, as Leigh revealed that Gordon Brown was demanding capitulation to the barons, Thomas had appeared (pdf) to put up a fight: \"Losing half the country's child benefit records looks to have been a serious mistake, but at least it was accidental. If there is a change of heart on legislation aimed at deliberate security breaches, the government will find it hard to convince people that measures aimed at preventing data loss need to be taken seriously.\" Ouch! But by Thursday, when it became clear that the clause that would bring in the jail sentences would be passed but suspended, Thomas was painting humiliating defeat as a draw (pdf). As Leigh's piece shows, the row opened an ideological and ethical fissure between \"genuine\" investigative journalists and the tabloids. Leigh, while claiming never to have broken this law, was happy to take his chances before a jury with the available public interest defence. The Daily Mail, alleged to be one of the main culprits, has spoken of a \"a 'chilling' effect on legitimate and responsible journalism\". Of course, the problem with the public interest is the ready-made confusion between what is in the interests of the public and what interests the public, between what we need to know and what we want to know. Who is to decide what is good for us? On the other hand, in a consumer society where the concept of \"must-have\" is taken seriously, must we know something just because we want to know it? The ethical divide centres around our desire to know about the private lives of celebrities ... and politicians. So is the private business of public figures a matter of legitimate interest only if it shows up wrongdoing or hypocrisy? The third victory last week for those who believe we should know more about public figures came with the disclosure of the expenses claims of some high profile MPs. Surely we are entitled to know what politicians are doing with our money? Well, maybe. Despite being labelled a \"freedom of information campaigner\", I'm not convinced we are entitled to know everything, all of the time. I know it's both tantamount to heresy and pretty Canute-like in the internet age. But in its recent decision (pdf), now under challenge, the Information Tribunal relied heavily on the inadequacy of the system of checking MPs' claims for additional costs allowance (ACA): \"We acknowledge that this will result in a significant degree of intrusion into private life ... But the ACA system is so deeply flawed, the shortfall in accountability so substantial, and the necessity of full disclosure so convincingly established, that only the most pressing privacy needs should in our view be permitted to prevail.\" I agree. I don't need to know what MPs are spending my money on. I want to know that the person who needs to know does.",
  "title": "Need to know?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing"
  ],
  "lead": "Chris Ames: Public interest is increasingly hard to define: nowadays it's difficult to draw a line between what we should know and what we simply want to",
  "id": "commentisfree/2008/apr/09/needtoknow",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}