{
  "content": "Press watchdogs became embroiled in an unseemly brawl over the emotive issue of media intrusion yesterday when MPs called on newspapers to clean up their act. Chris Bryant led the charge at the Commons media select committee, attacking the practice of allowing censured edi tors to sit on the press complaints commission. He also castigated the PCC for failing to act on the recent admission by the Sun editor, Rebekah Wade, that her newspaper had paid police officers for information. The attacks by Mr Bryant, Labour MP for Rhondda, were made against a backdrop of increased hostility between the committee - which is investigating media intrusion - and the newspaper industry. It emerged yesterday that the PCC had written to the chairman, Gerald Kaufman, to say it did not want to be cross-examined by Mr Bryant, who elicited the admission from Ms Wade at an earlier hearing. Les Hinton, executive chairman of News International and a key member of the PCC, tried to sidestep the police payments issue yesterday, saying: \"My understanding was that she said there had been payments made in the past.\" Mr Bryant said: \"We have the odd situation of having had a News International editor before us who was extremely candid. We now have the chairman of the code committee, who is also the chairman of News International, who gives us a different story. Is it time for you to clean up your act?\" Mr Hinton retorted: \"Clean up our act? Are you saying we're dirty?\" Mr Bryant also asked why former People editor Neil Wallis sits on the PCC when he has two adjudications against him. \"You might as well have Neil Hamilton and Jonathan Aitken sitting on the committee for parliamentary standards.\" Mr Kaufman has accused the PCC of failing to take action over a complaint by Linda Gilroy, who has accused journalists of doorstepping the families of missing servicemen in her Plymouth Sutton constituency.",
  "title": "MP tells press watchdog to clean up its act",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Press watchdogs became embroiled in an unseemly brawl over the emotive issue of media intrusion yesterday when MPs called on newspapers to clean up their act. By Matt Wells and Ciar Byrne.",
  "id": "politics/2003/mar/26/uk.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}