{
  "content": "There is nothing particularly funny about the cost of libel actions and, as some journalists have learned to the financial detriment of their newspapers, a sense of humour or, worse still, a joke, finds no favours in the courts either. That jokes go wrong in the legal world is not news: back in 1910 the courts heard that a satirical sketch had appeared in the Sunday Chronicle about one Artemus Jones, a fictional Peckham church warden, who had gone to France with a woman \"who was not his wife\". Entertaining stuff (in 1910 anyway) but a Welsh barrister called Thomas Artemus Jones (not from Peckham and not a church warden) complained and trousered the then enormous sum of \u00a31,750 in libel damages. He satisfied the House of Lords that reasonable people might conclude that the defamatory words referred to him. The newspaper's assertion that its Artemus Jones was completely imaginary was somewhat undermined by the fact that Thomas Artemus Jones had been a subeditor on the paper seven years earlier. Jokes still go sour. On March 31 2002 Harrods issued a press release \"Al Fayed reveals plan to 'float' Harrods\", inviting the media to contact someone called Loof Lirpa, as there was to be an important announcement on the morning of the following day (April 1): the launch of a floating shop in a canal boat. The April fool joke rather backfired because on April 5 the Wall Street Journal, under the headline \"The Enron of Britain?\" reported that \"if Harrods, the British luxury retailer, ever goes public, investors would be wise to question its every disclosure\". It had earlier reported the release as \"news\" and perhaps wanted to get its own back. Harrods demanded an apology and damages to be paid to charity. Late last month Mr Justice Eady determined that the resulting libel action should be heard in the UK, rather than the US as the defendant (understandably) wanted, and said that the words could mean that every corporate disclosure of Harrods should be distrusted, and even that \"it is reasonably suspected that if the claimant [Harrods] were to become a public company it would prove itself to be Britain's Enron by deceiving and defrauding its investors on a huge scale\". No comedy there. The judge pointed out that the newspaper could defend the allegations \"as not being defamatory and as representing a humorous response to Mr Al Fayed's April Fool's Day joke\". The judge hoped that the parties would arrive at a \"sensible compromise\". Not something, regrettably, that libel cases are famous for. According to the Wall Street Journal its follow up on April 5 \"was meant to be a humorous comment on the bogus press release\" which was \"light-hearted\". Tell that to a judge... The history of the \"joke\" defence is not a happy one. Indeed, in the legal textbook Gatley on Libel and Slander neither \"joke\" nor \"humour\" makes the index. Words are defamatory, or they are not. Intention is irrelevant. In their desire to inform, educate and entertain readers, journalists can get too carried away with the inherent humour (as they see it) of a particular story. Not too long after EastEnders was launched by the BBC, the Sunday Mirror, in an article headed \"Godmother stole my story\", reported the claims of various individuals living in the East End of London that the characters in the soap were derived from their lives and experiences rather than the imagination of the BBC's producer and scriptwriter. The BBC had indeed invited viewers to write in with suggestions for a soap but what became EastEnders was original and not a result of stealing other people's ideas (and lives) - one had even claimed to be the \"real\" Dot Cotton. The two BBC claimants did not find what was intended to be a light-hearted feature funny and believed that it had destroyed their reputations in the world of popular entertainment. The newspaper accepted that the article was defamatory and a jury awarded, in June 1989, \u00a390,000 damages to them. Over the years, the editor of Private Eye has found that some of his jokes were not quite as funny as had been hoped but he must have chuckled when ex-MP Rupert Allason failed in his libel action against the BBC's Have I Got News for You Christmas book, which joked that \"given Mr Allason's fondness for pursuing libel actions, there are excellent legal reasons for not referring to him as a conniving little shit\". Mr Allason had, indeed, pocketed hundreds of thousands of pounds in the libel courts and complained that the BBC's quip (which had been cut from the broadcast of the show) was \"a vicious libel and a revolting slur\". The jury found in favour of the BBC but this was probably because the offending words were \"mere abuse\" (not defamatory in law) rather than treating funny jokes as exempt in some way from the laws of libel. But the BBC was not so lucky when contestants had a pop at the athlete Fatima Whitbread on the show They Think It's All Over. The BBC appreciated the considerable burden on a broadcaster to show that an intended jest could not be taken seriously and paid up. The corporation may have had in mind the words of Lord Justice Millet not long before: \"Many a true word is spoken in jest. Many a false word too.\" It is not just journalists who need to be careful about letting their sense of humour get the better of them. The author Tom Sharpe came a cropper in 1974 when satirising television presenters in his novel Porterhouse Blue. Unfortunately his choice of name for one of his none-too-pleasant characters turned out to be a real BBC personality. The book went beyond fiction into satire but still the joke fell flat and a libel claim was made and had to be settled. And it is not just the written word that can cause grief to a humorist. Dusty Springfield was awarded \u00a375,000 for a TV sketch by comedian Bobby Davro in which she was portrayed as performing while drunk. Even cartoonists get complaints - Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon complained to the Press Complaints Commission that a cartoon in the Independent in January 2003 was \"prejudicial and pejorative\" when it showed him eating an infant while saying the words \"what's wrong... have you never seen a politician kissing babies before?\" with tanks, helicopters and rubble in the background. Solicitors on behalf of the prime minister and the Israeli embassy, and about a hundred or so members of the public complained to the PCC that the cartoon was unacceptable. It certainly wasn't funny. The PCC regretted any offence that had been caused but rejected the complaint. It is much safer to let the judge tell the jokes... \u00b7 Duncan Lamont is a media partner at City solicitors Charles Russell",
  "title": "Let the judge do the jokes",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "The history of the humorous libel defence is littered with costly defeats. Duncan Lamont explains.",
  "id": "media/2003/jun/09/mondaymediasection.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}