{
  "content": "Alma Whitten is director of privacy for products and engineering, Google Inc. This unpaid post was submitted by Google, and does not reflect any editorial stance by the Guardian I've been working on privacy and security projects at Google since I joined the company in 2003. Over time, as our number of services and users has grown, so too has our awareness of the importance of earning and keeping people's trust. That awareness has led us to build innovative tools that keep people in control of their information. It has also led us to work hard to make it easy for people to understand our privacy commitments to them. In January we announced that we were updating our privacy policies, and those changes take effect from Thursday 1 March. We know that changes like this are important, which is why we've engaged in the largest communication we've ever made to our users: notifying people when they log in or when they use services like search, and emailing people with Google accounts. If you use Gmail, YouTube or any other Google services, you've no doubt heard about this change. The result has been a lot of scrutiny on those changes. We welcome this, because privacy is important. But it's also led to some misunderstandings about what's happening. The most important thing to remember is that we're doing this to make our privacy commitments more understandable, and to make Google work better for you. First, simplicity. Google started in 1998 as a search engine. Since then we've added a whole range of services: Gmail, Google Maps, Chrome, Google Docs, Android and Google+ to name a few. Historically when we launched a new service, we added a new privacy policy. Same when we acquired a service \u2013 we left the existing policy in place. Eventually, to read them all became an all-day endeavour. So in 2010 we took a first step toward simplifying them by folding a dozen service-specific notices into our main privacy policy. But that still left more than 70. On January 24 we announced that we've rewritten \u2013 in plain English \u2013 our main Google privacy policy and folded in more than 60 service-specific ones. As of Thursday 1 March, you'll have one comprehensive document outlining our privacy commitments across the vast majority of Google services. Second, we want to create a better user experience. For the most part, our privacy policies already allowed us to combine information gathered in connection with one service with information from other services when users are signed into their Google Accounts. Microsoft, Yahoo and other online companies do the same. It lets us treat you as a single user across Google when you're signed in. Today, for example, you can immediately add an appointment to your Google Calendar when a message in Gmail looks like it's about a meeting. You can use the Google+ sharing feature \u2013 \"circles\" \u2013 to send friends directions without leaving Google Maps. Or you can use your Gmail address book to auto-complete an email address when you're inviting someone to collaborate on a Google Docs spreadsheet. It's all seamless, and it saves you time. However, our old privacy policies restricted our ability to combine information within an account for two services: web history (search history for signed-in users) and YouTube, which we acquired in 2007. So, if you're signed in and searching Google for cooking recipes, our current privacy policies wouldn't let us recommend cooking videos when you visited YouTube based on your searches \u2013 even though you were signed into the same Google Account for both. So our updated privacy policy makes it clear in one comprehensive document that, if you're signed in, we may combine information you've provided from one service with information from our other services. We think this will lead to more relevant and useful information of all kinds \u2013 search results, ads and more that suit your interests. Our approach to privacy isn't changing. We're not collecting any new information as a result of this change. We're not altering any of your privacy settings. And we still won't sell your personal information to advertisers. We just want to use the information you already trust us with to make your experience better. If you don't think information sharing will improve your experience, you don't need to sign in to use services like search, maps and YouTube. If you are signed in, you can use our many privacy tools to do things like edit or turn off your search history and YouTube history, control the way Google tailors ads to your interests and browse the web \"incognito\" using Chrome. You can even separate your information into different accounts. In other words, you can use the complete range of Google tools that give you transparency and control over your data. We remain just as committed to privacy today as we have always been, and we'll continue to look for ways to make it simpler for you to understand and control how we use the information you entrust to us. Just last week we joined the White House and others from industry to support \"Do Not Track\" in a consistent and meaningful way that offers user choice and clearly explained browser controls. Providing transparency, control and security remains crucial to keeping your trust; we build Google for you, and we think these changes will make our services even better.",
  "title": "Google: our policies are getting simpler, but our commitment to privacy hasn't changed",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/google",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "In a guest post, the company's director of privacy explains its thinking behind the unification of its privacy policies and accompanying data. By Alma Whitten",
  "id": "technology/blog/2012/mar/01/google",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}