{
  "content": "\"MySpace was a good acquisition at one point... but the truth of the matter is they were not able to sustain or be competitive with other companies, notably Facebook. They weren't able to be competitive because News Corporation knows nothing about technology.\" That came from Michael Wolff, author of the Rupert Murdoch biography The Man Who Owns The News, speaking to Beet.TV. \"When mainstream, traditional media companies buy technology companies they don't do very well - often they do terribly, and often they collapse,\" he continues. \"It's no longer competitive. It continues to have a very large audience, but that growth has become less and less and it will ultimately reverse. Unfortunately, to compound the situation, it has never really had a cogent or powerful business model so even managing its decline - or just for cash - is not a reality.\" Is that too harsh an appraisal? Even accounting for the gloomy economic climate, there's a chequered history of old meets new media acquisitions from AOL and Bebo to CBS and Last.fm. As the social networking deal of its era, News Corp and MySpace can expect extra scrutiny, not least because if the genius of Rupert Murdoch can't find the money in them there hills, who can? But there are certainly big changes afoot at MySpace. It's the perfect storm of the economic downturn, which has made businesses consolidate and cut costs, combined with the generational collapse of the old media business model. We know about the stagnating MySpace audience - and new data from comScore this week confirmed it has been usurped by Facebook as the most popular social network on its US hometurf. We also know about the drastic job cuts at MySpace, which were confirmed last night. There's no confirmation yet of the UK and European implications of those cuts, though we've had reports that 20 staff have already been made redundant at MySpace UK. It could be a classic symptom of tarting the site up to sell it... but who would buy it? It would be a terrible time for News Corp to sell with MySpace traffic visibly on the decline and the downturn pushing prices down. News Corp wouldn't get anything like the $580m it paid for the site back in 2005. More likely, this is just the MySpace part of News Corp-wide cost cuttings - and a timely, appropriate restructure of a company that needs to turn a very sharp corner very quickly. Maybe News Corporation should team up with ITV for a BOGOF - Buy One Get One Free - offering Friends Reunited in a bargain basement bundle with MySpace? Friends Reunited (suggested strapline: 'Social networking's biggest missed opportunity') and MySpace (suggested strapline: 'Remember when MySpace was cool?'). We've all been there - pasting those MySpace skins into the 'about me' field all those years back. But the pace of change in technology, let alone among that 'youth' demographic, is relentless, and perhaps big media companies are just looking for something too long term. Were they ever clear enough about why they were buying a social networking site in the first place? If the shelf life of a social network is less than five years, they will need to think far more carefully about whether a long-term revenue goal is realistic, and whether they can support the kind of rapid development that a site like Myspace would need to flourish. As Wolff says - perhaps it just takes a technology company to really bring a site to its full potential.",
  "title": "MySpace on the slide - what can fix it?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/myspace",
    "media/rupert-murdoch",
    "media/news-corporation",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "MySpace has failed because News Corporation knows nothing about technology, says author Michael Wolff. What can save the social networking site now? By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "media/pda/2009/jun/17/myspace-rupert-murdoch",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}