{
  "content": "Lawyers acting for a former royal servant last night obtained their second injunction against the press in three days when they were granted a court order preventing the Guardian from revealing his identity. The granting of two such injunctions in such a short time represents a significant escalation in royal-related litigation. The Guardian had intended to disclose this morning the name of the former royal servant who, over the weekend, persuaded Mr Justice McKinnon to block an article concerning him in a Sunday newspaper. That first injunction was granted at the weekend against the Mail on Sunday, which proposed to run a 3,000 word interview with another ex-royal servant \"backed up by a sworn affidavit\". The paper was prevented from publishing after it was alleged the piece was libellous. It is very unusual for the courts to grant pre-publication injunctions on grounds of libel. They are regarded as a form of censorship, and normally, if a newspaper claims it is prepared to justify the truth of what it says in court, they are allowed to go ahead at their own risk. The Mail on Sunday says that the move to stop publication was accompanied by \"a written demand from a senior royal that there should be no publication of the story\". Lawyers at Kingsley Napley, representing the royal aide in question, refused to disclose the exact terms of the injunction. By last night it had become clear however, that the original court order did not prevent the naming of its beneficiary. The position today is that while the nature of the allegations is widely known within the media, it cannot be openly ventilated and its truth established or disproved. \u00b7 Lawyers for a former voice coach to Princess Diana yesterday threatened court action by tomorrow if police continued to hold up to 20 intimate video tapes of the Princess which he claims belong to him. Marcus Rutherford, a solicitor for Peter Settelen, who counselled and trained the Princess when she was seeking to make an independent life, said that Scotland Yard had been sitting on the tapes for more than a year. They were found during raids on Paul Burrell's house, and have been keptby police since the collapse of Mr Burrell's trial for theft. They regarded as too sensitive to admit into evidence. Princess Diana's family, as executors of her estate, are seeking to prevent the tapes being returned to Mr Settelen. They are believed to contain unwelcome reflections by the princess on her emotional problems and relationship with Prince Charles.",
  "title": "Former royal servant wins court ban on Guardian",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Lawyers acting for a former royal servant last night obtained their second injunction against the press in three days when they were granted a court order preventing the Guardian from revealing his identity, writes David Leigh",
  "id": "media/2003/nov/04/privacy.themonarchy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}