{
  "content": "The evolution of social media and mobile communication may have made it easier than ever for young people to share but they also create an environment that can make bullying \"inescapable and even more threatening than ever before\" according to a new report by Child Helpline International (CHI). CHI, a network of government and civil society organisations, operates 173 child helplines in over 142 countries and in the past 10 years has collated a database of more than 126m contacts by children and adults on behalf of young people from its member helplines. The 126m refers to the number of conversations that have taken place between a child or young person and a counsellor of a child helpline somewhere in the world, on any subject a child or young person wanted to talk about. The database has collated data through any form of communication used by child helplines including telephone, chat, SMS, message boards, walk-in centres and outreach activities. Of the 126m, nearly 4m have been about abuse and violence, including categories such as bullying, emotional abuse, physical abuse, sexual abuse and neglect. And since the CHI started collecting data on cyberbullying in 2011, more than 27,000 contacts have been recorded on this subject. On average, every child helpline in the world receives nine contacts from children and young people per day who are suffering the effects of bullying, according to CHI. Of course the results of this report don't tell the whole story, for every child that seeks advice by contacting a helpline, there are many more that either do not have the access, confidence or privacy to do the same. As a result, gathering data on the number of children suffering from bullying has never been simple, but the CHI's analysis helps give an insight into a global problem affecting many. NSPCC statistics on bullying collated from government reports and research suggest that almost half of children and young people have been bullied at school at some point in their lives. The NSPCC also report that 38% of young people have been affected by cyberbullying. Figures from a 2011 report by the Department of Education (DfE) also show that girls are twice as likely to experience persistent cyberbullying than boys. This trend was also apparent in CHI's analysis - the number of girls contacting them about cyberbullying was slightly higher than boys, although 90% of those contacting child helplines \"hesitated to disclose their gender to protect their identity and maintain their anonymity after having suffered online abuse\". The overall proportion that were not willing disclose their gender for recording purposes was 71%. Ofcom research, published in 2008, showed that almost half of children aged 8-17 who use the internet had set up their own profile on a social networking site. The Ofcom research also reported the following observation: It also appears likely that when children receive hostile, bullying or hateful messages, they are generally ill-equipped to respond appropriately or to cope with the emotional upset this causes So what else does the release by CHI show? Well, the number of contacts received in 2012 was more than double those received in 2006, but as CHI note, the rise in contacts could also be associated with growing awareness of bullying amongst children. Bullying can take many forms but analysis on information gathered since 2011 has highlighted four major categories; emotional, physical, exposure and theft. Almost half of the contacts on bullying could be be categorised as emotional bullying and nearly a quarter as physical abuse. Instances where young people have been either exposed to bullying as a witness or have had belongings stolen accounted for 12.5% of contacts each. Emotional bullying and theft were the most common types of bullying reported by girls, whereas boys were most likely to contact a helpline due to physical bullying, exposure or theft. Analysis of contacts made with child helplines show that nine out of ten cases of bullying take place at school, although this fact may not come as a surprise, the breakdown of who the bullies are makes for interesting reading. Over a third of indicated perpetrators were adults and globally, teachers were responsible for more than 23% of bullying; more than 14% by male teachers, 7% by female teachers and 2% gender not known. Regional breakdown of the data also provides some fascinating insights into how differences in culture and community affect the figures. Whilst in Europe around 4% of contacts about bullying involved a teacher, this figure reaches 37% in Africa. But as we know bullying can be much more complex than the figures can possibly show. Differences in culture, attitudes and laws against corporal punishment can help to explain the vast differences in percentages. More children and young people in Europe contacted child helplines on the issue of bullying than any other region. More than half a million contacts have been made in Europe over the past 10 years. Asia Pacific follows with almost 135,000 contacts, America and the Carribean with nearly 100,000, Africa with 55,000 and lastly the Middle East and North Africa with 8,856. As discussed above, culture and socioeconomic factors (the likelihood that a family will even have a phone or access to a counsellor) are likely to influence these geographic trends. In all regions except the Middle East and North Africa, the majority of contacts on bullying were from girls. In the Middle East and North Africa however, 55% of contacts were made by boys. Bullying can be a problem for teachers as well as students as a NASTUWT survey published last April demonstrated. 42% of those teachers filling out the survey said they had received an insulting comment, allegation of inappropriate behaviour with a pupil, comment on their performance or other comment posted online or on a social networking site. Chris Keates, NASUWT General Secretary said at the time of release that: A significant minority of our members are being abused by their pupils and that in too many cases the action taken does not reflect the seriousness of the abuse CHI acknowledge that as with any, empirical study, there are certain strengths and weaknesses to the release. So here are some things to consider when looking at the data: \u2022 The numbers in the Excel files might slightly differ from the data in the thematic briefing paper. This is due to the fact that CHI are currently still working on their data collection for 2012 and at the moment, are continuously updating the database. They assure us that \"Overall, the proportions will not affected much\". \u2022 The category 'Unknown' is not included in the data on the involvement of peers and teachers as for the majority of contacts, the status of the perpetrators is not known \u2022 In the case of gender disaggregated data, the unknown category is also been left out for similar reasons as above. How useful is data on bullying? Did CHI's analysis tell you anything you didn't know before? Discuss the results in the comments thread below. Download the data \u2022 DATA: download the full spreadsheet More data More data journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian \u2022 Follow us on Twitter \u2022 Like us on Facebook",
  "title": "10 years of bullying data: what does it tell us?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/world",
    "society/children",
    "society/bullying",
    "society/society",
    "society/cyberbullying",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "A decade of global data attempts to analyse the details of bullying. But what can the figures really tell us about an issue that is so difficult to record?",
  "id": "news/datablog/2013/may/23/10-years-bullying-data",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}