{
  "content": "Poor David Cameron. He, or whoever runs his Twitter account, just can't quite get the hang of this social media malarkey. The PM inadvertently started his very own meme on Wednesday evening when he tweeted a picture of himself looking extremely serious on the phone to Barack Obama. In flooded the parodies - including the inimitable Sir Patrick Stewart holding a tube of wet wipes to his ear. Such is the internet, where politicians and their Twitter gaffes are the source of mirth and mocking. So here are the best five (or worst, depending on how you look at it) gaffes from British politicians on Twitter. 1. David Cameron... just in general To be fair to Cameron, he kind of foresaw how his forays on Twitter would go when he made his now infamous remark that \"too many twits might make a twat\". The problem with being the PM and on Twitter means pretty much everything you tweet will be met with derision and abuse. It also means any mistake you make will inevitably be picked up by numerous eagle-eyed reporters. For example, there was that time his account autofollowed a high-class escort agency. And who can forget when he managed to include a spoof Ian Duncan Smith account (@IDS_MP)in a tweet about the benefits cap? Then Rob Delaney came along with his toothpaste and added another Twitter gaffe to the roster. Sorry Dave, perhaps you need to rethink your social media strategy? 2. Ed Balls tweets Ed Balls, becomes national institution We can't decide if this is a gaffe or an unintentional stroke of genius. Who knew Ed Balls would become a social media superstar by accidentally tweeting his own name? Now Ed Balls Day is actually a thing, as users mark the anniversary of this wondrous event by... er... tweeting Ed Balls. Even Ed Balls couldn't resist getting involved in Ed Balls Day. Ed Balls. 3. George Osborne and his posh burger In what we can only assume was a bid to seem like a \"man of the people\", Chancellor George Osborne tweeted a picture of himself scoffing a late-night takeaway the day before the comprehensive spending review. Except it soon transpired his burger wasn't from some any old takeaway- it was actually a posh burger from upmarket chain Byron Burger. Twitter laughed it up and it made the Sun's front page. Osborne, being fairly new to Twitter, was a touch confused. At the time, he said: \"There I am working late on my speech, and I've got a takeaway hamburger, but it puts you on the front page of the Sun. It's an occupational hazard.\" To add insult to injury, he got upstaged by Eric Pickles and a salad. 4. Aiden Burley and the \"leftie multicultural crap\" Conservative MP Aiden Burley wildly misjudged the national mood during the 2012 Olympic opening ceremony, tweeting: \"The most leftie opening ceremony I have ever seen \u2013 more than Beijing, the capital of a communist state! Welfare tribute next?\" In a subsequent tweet, he added: \"Thank God the athletes have arrived! Now we can move on from leftie multicultural crap.\" Not the best move while the rest of Twitter was going wild for Danny Boyle's celebration of all things British. Burley told the BBC the tweets had been misunderstood. 5. Ed Miliband makes a typo, Twitter eats itself Typos are par for the course on Twitter, of course. Except when the leader of the opposition makes a rather unfortunate one after the death of a high-profile figure. Ed Miliband made his mistake in an attempt to express sadness at the death of gameshow host Bob Holness, of Blockbusters fame. \"Sad to hear Bob Holness has died. A generation will remember him fondly from Blackbusters,\" read the hastily-deleted tweet. It didn't help Miliband had only just given Diane Abbott a right telling off for her own social media mishap. We're sure there are plenty more we could have mentioned from the UK and further afield. Add your favourites in the comments below.",
  "title": "The top five political Twitter gaffes",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/davidcameron",
    "politics/politics",
    "technology/twitter",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "David Cameron accidentally started a meme on Wednesday when actors and comedians pretended to join his conference call with Barack Obama. There are plenty more political Twitter gaffes where that came from",
  "id": "politics/2014/mar/06/politicians-twitter-top-5-gaffes-cameron-phone-obama",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}