{
  "content": "I never thought I'd be an entrepreneur. It wasn't something that was discussed at school; we were encouraged to go into a profession. I studied languages at university, joined a graduate scheme at a bank, then moved into advertising \u2013 where I stayed for 15 years, selling technology products. The turning point came four years ago when I had a really bad experience in a phone shop. I wanted a new handset and the guy serving me, who was about 15 years younger than me, assumed I didn't know the difference between ROM and RAM. He suggested this low-tech pink phone and I just looked at him and thought: \"You know what? I've two kids, I pay half my mortgage, I've got money to spend and you're not taking me seriously.\" My experience is backed up by research from Forrester that shows UK women feel frustrated and alienated by the way technology companies communicate with them. It made me think: \"There's a market here: a group of women who are completely under-served.\" So I set up my own consultancy business helping big brands make technology more accessible and appealing to women. Mentors develop organically I've had a number of business mentors, but I don't really believe in the traditional notion of mentoring, where you find someone suitable, agree to meet up once a week or whatever. I've never said to anyone: \"Will you be my mentor?\" and no one has ever offered to be mine. For me, mentoring is something that develops organically; it starts off with a connection and develops over time. And, personally, I think it's better to have a few mentors to help you with different aspects of your business. When I was working for an advertising agency, I didn't feel directly involved with the money side of things. Then I launched my own business and suddenly was in the frontline. I got a lot of support at the time from Adam Morgan, who runs a branding company called Eatbigfish. He'd say things like: \"You're not charging enough \u2013 you're worth more than that\", which really helped me with selling and pricing. I've also had support from a woman who has worked in a number of senior roles in technology companies who is brilliant at looking at the future of the business. She's encouraged me to ask myself questions like: \"How can we drive revenue for the next three years? What can we offer that's incredibly unique, that no one else can?\" So it's a much more strategic vision of the business. As with Adam, it's never been a formal arrangement; she's one of a number people I call on for support from time to time. I also belong to the World Economic Forum's Young Global Leaders network [an international group of under 40s, who are considered to be exceptional leaders]. We meet once a year and it's great to have that diversity of thought and a global perspective. Support on social media I think social media is changing ideas about mentoring and business support. I'm not brilliant in big rooms and I have small children, so it's difficult to do the face-to-face networking thing. That's why I do most of my networking on Twitter. I just love the fact you can get help with everything \u2013 from finding someone to make you a fascinator for an awards do (as I did recently) to a new accountant. I have been asked to mentor other people, but with two young children and a business to run, I have to limit that. There just isn't enough time to do everything. But I do feel I have a responsibility to inspire or encourage other people \u2013 particularly young women \u2013 to consider starting and running their own business. That's why we invite sixth formers from nearby Highgate Wood School to come in during the holidays to do some work experience. As the business grows, needs change When you're first starting out in business, it's important to have mentor figures who are similar to you \u2013 in the same industry or stage of their business growth, for example. But as you grow in confidence, I think it's better to find people who are very different to you. It might sound odd, but I've found that some of my clients have taken on a mentoring role at different times. Andy Palmer, the CEO at Aston Martin is one example; having a male perspective when you doing a very \"female\" thing is invaluable. While we're all about making technology accessible to women, we have to make sure we're not alienating men. So having this relationship with a guy in the car industry has been brilliant, because it's a completely different perspective. Success in business is often about learning on the job. I see it as a bit like spaghetti; you don't sit there talking about the shape of the pasta, what constitutes great spaghetti and what the positioning should be. You chuck it at the wall, and if it sticks, you invest money and time. Your business is, essentially, your baby. And if someone tells you your baby is ugly \u2013 or just not what you thought \u2013 it can be hard to take. That's why mentoring is important; sometimes you need that raw, unfiltered, unvarnished feedback that tells you where you really are \u2013 not where you think you are. Belinda Parmar is the founder of social enterprise Little Miss Geek and the CEO of Lady Geek. The Lady Geeks campaign to inspire women to change the world through technology Read more Meet the female entrepreneurs taking on male-dominated industries The risks and rewards of starting a business \u2013 interactive Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.",
  "title": "'Sometimes you need that raw, unfiltered feedback'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "small-business-network/small-business-network",
    "small-business-network/entrepreneur-stories",
    "business/business",
    "business/small-business",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "business/entrepreneurs"
  ],
  "lead": "When your business is your baby criticism can be hard to take. But a good mentor can help an entrepreneur succeed, as Belinda Parmar, founder of Lady Geek explains",
  "id": "small-business-network/2015/feb/10/need-raw-unfiltered-feedback-mentor",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}