{
  "content": "The social networking trend has scythed its way through offices and schools around the country - but now a new website is hoping to appeal to older internet users. Saga Zone, created by the insurance and holiday company, launches today with the aim of becoming the social website of choice for the over-50s. Users of Saga Zone must be over 50 - but once they have joined members can create their own profile pages, contact friends or join in online discussions. The site, which has been running in trial mode for four months, has more than 13,000 users so far - and the company hopes this will increase dramatically now it is officially open. \"Older people aren't shy of using the internet - they have a verve for life that applies online as well as offline,\" said Paul Green, a Saga spokesman. \"Thirteen thousand is just a drop in the ocean - in theory the membership is practically limitless. Social networking isn't going to be for everyone, but the feedback so far has knocked our socks off.\" A survey this year by media regulator Ofcom found that older surfers make up a significant proportion of the internet population, and are much more likely to spend money online. Surfers over 50 account for nearly a third of all time spent online by British web users. \"It's a myth that older people are put off by technology,\" said Nick Parker, deputy editor of the Oldie magazine. \"Our experience is that older people are very effective users of the internet.\" Sites such as Friends Reunited have proved popular among older surfers. Although there are no age limits on networks such as Facebook or MySpace, the sites are heavily populated by younger users. So far the oldest user of Saga Zone is 87. Saga Zone is not the first attempt to cash in on the social networking craze among affluent older surfers. American website Eons launched last year with a focus on the baby boom generation. But despite raising \u00a316m from investors Eons has struggled in the popularity stakes and was forced to lay off a third of its 72 staff last month. Big names MySpace The world's largest social networking site, which has more than 200 million users Facebook Originally used by Harvard students, now has more than 50 million users Bebo Twenty-five million people signed up in the past year - mostly teenagers",
  "title": "Saga launches social website for over-50s",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/web20",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "&#183; New network attracts 13,000 in four-month trial &#183; Company says feedback 'has knocked our socks off'",
  "id": "technology/2007/oct/31/news.socialnetworking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}