{
  "content": "After two months, and more than a million clicks, the weirdest social experiment on the internet is over: Reddit's Button has hit zero. And it ended, not with a bang, but a whimper: hiding behind the end of the countdown was nothing more than a simple message reading: \"The experiment is over.\" Even that was underwhelming, having been accidentally revealed multiple times owing to server crashes. For the uninitiated, the button began as an April Fools' Day prank on the social news site Reddit. On that day, the site's admins published a short blog post. \"When this post is 10 minutes old, a button and timer will become active at /r/thebutton,\" it explained. \"The timer will count down from 60 seconds. If the button is pressed the timer will reset to 60 seconds and continue counting down. \"You may only press the button once.\" The post was factual: the newly formed subreddit did indeed hold a button, a timer, and a dynamic pie chart. Users could only push the button if they were logged in with an account created before 1 April 2015, and, true to Reddit's word, they could only ever push the button once. 'Filthy pressers' Rapidly, a small but intensely devoted community built up around the social experiment, based largely on one other facet of the button. Depending on what time was showing on the clock when a particular account gave in and clicked, a specific \"flair\" would be assigned: purple if pushed in the first eight seconds, then blue if pushed in the next 10, the green, yellow, orange and finally red. Until the button is pushed, the flair is grey. And once you start labelling people, it's only a short step to them taking the labels seriously. Sure enough, that's what happened at the Button. The biggest split emerged between those who had pushed, and those who had not: the \"filthy pressers\" versus those who would never do such a thing. Of course, within the non-pressing camp, there was another split, dividing those who didn't press because they wanted to see the button hit zero, and those who didn't press because they wanted to ensure that they would be able to reset the button at the last minute \u2013 the self-proclaimed \"knights of the button\". In the end, though, it was only going to end one way. By the third month, the button was hitting zero more often than not, and even with round-the-clock vigilance from the knights , it would have taken 1,400 accounts to throw themselves at the button every day to prevent it from timing out. The final point of failure was even less spectacular: a co-ordinated attempt to keep the button alive by automatically pressing it with donated accounts when it got too low had been working on overtime, but a fatal flaw meant that no-one bothered to check whether the anointed account actually could press. The bot queued up the account, attempted to press the button \u2013 and found that the account had been registered after 1 April. And so, at 10:50 UK time, the experiment ended. It had involved 1,008,316 Reddit accounts \u2013 although, given how many people used multiple accounts to get extra presses, probably fewer individuals \u2013 and lasted three months and five days. It finished the way it started: with a message from the Reddit admins warning participants that \"when this post is 10 minutes old, this subreddit will be archived\". No new comments can be left, and no new posts can be made. On the plus side, three months is a fairly good innings for an April Fools' Day prank.",
  "title": "Reddit's mysterious button experiment is over",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/reddit",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "What started as an April Fools' Day prank, before gaining unexpected momentum in recent weeks, went out with a whimper",
  "id": "technology/2015/jun/08/reddits-mysterious-button-experiment-is-over",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}