{
  "content": "Thanks to a collapsed ceiling in its Strasbourg chamber, the European parliament will have to stay in Brussels for its plenary session later this month. Yet it would be fanciful to imagine that the respite offered to MEPs from their exhausting high-carbon commute will make them more clear-headed than normal when crafting legislation. For many of them appear intent on using the occasion to mount an ill-conceived attack on civil liberties. Around the same time it emerged that discs containing sensitive information on 25 million child benefit claimants went missing in Britain last year, the European commission proposed (pdf) a mandatory notification scheme in cases where a security breach leads to a loss of personal data. The broad thrust of that proposal \u2013 known as the electronic privacy directive \u2013 appeared sensible. But now MEPs want to transform the package so that rather than helping to enhance privacy, it will erode it. The parliament's position \u2013 drafted by British Conservative Malcolm Harbour \u2013 favours a \"three-strike\" system to allow music or film companies to monitor the downloading of copyrighted material by effectively spying on internet users. First, copyright holders could store the internet protocol (IP) addresses \u2013 the string of numbers that can identify the computer onto which an individual has logged. Second, the internet firm to which a downloader is subscribed would issue him or her with a warning. And third, the person's internet connection could be cut off. Peter Hustinx, the EU's data protection supervisor, has argued that the recommended system is \"highly invasive of an individual's private sphere and also jeopardises freedom of speech\". This week he called on Harbour to devise safeguards in order to avoid \"the systematic and pro-active surveillance of internet usage\". Ever since it started regarding the internet as a threat to the CD, the music industry has shamelessly tried to use almost every available weapon against downloading. When the EU institutions were discussing a zany plan \u2013 presented as an anti-terrorism measure \u2013 for storing data on every phone call made and email sent on the union's territory a few years ago, Hollywood studios and major record companies joined forces to argue that its remit should be widened from terrorist offences to file-sharing. More recently, the Spanish producers and publishers group Promusicae lost a court battle aimed at forcing internet firms to hand over details on their clients. In that case, the European court of justice ruled that while both privacy and intellectual property can be regarded as fundamental rights, there is no obligation to transfer personal data in such circumstances. Paul McGuinness, the U2 manager, has claimed (pdf) that this verdict illustrated how a balance needs to be struck between these different rights. He claimed, too, that nobody is asking internet providers to be the \"police force on the internet\" or is advocating the monitoring of what websites people visit. Yet the proposals being considered in the European parliament do provide for such sweeping measures. The notion that people who do nothing more sinister than access music without paying should be treated as criminals has always been perverse. Using a drop in record sales as a pretext for mass surveillance is even more so.",
  "title": "David Cronin: MEPs are in danger of striking the wrong balance between the right to privacy and intellectual property",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/eu",
    "business/musicindustry",
    "business/business",
    "law/intellectual-property",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "David Cronin: MEPs are in danger of striking the wrong balance between the right to privacy and intellectual property",
  "id": "commentisfree/2008/sep/10/eu.musicindustry",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}