{
  "content": "Music discovery site This Is My Jam is to close after four years, citing the difficulty of running the music-focused startup in an age of increasing online centralisation and ever-stricter copyright regimes for embedded audio. The site, founded by London-based former Last.fm employees Matt Ogle and Han Donovan, allowed users to highlight a single song as their \"jam\", and share it on other social networks, as well as listen to a playlist of all their friends' selections. That approach, described by Donovan as \"notable data\" rather than big data, made the service popular with fans eager to explore niche favourites as well as keep up with the latest releases. But the service has been on the back foot for the last year, with Ogle joining Spotify and Donovan heading to Drip, and now the pair say it's impossible to keep the site running as a going concern. In a post on the site, they wrote: \"Keeping the jams flowing doesn't just involve our own code; we interoperate with YouTube, SoundCloud, Twitter, Facebook, The Hype Machine,The Echo Nest, Amazon, and more. Over the last year, changes to those services have meant instead of working on Jam features, 100% of our time's been spent updating years-old code libraries and hacking around deprecations just to keep the lights on. The trend is accelerating with more breaking/shutting off each month, soon exceeding our capacity to fix it.\" On top of those issues, they also highlight the difficulty in porting the service to mobile devices, where streaming rights are significantly more restricted, and the death of music streaming on the open web. \"Online music habits change quickly, and our specific approach doesn't suit today's users very well,\" the pair write. Donovan worries that Jam's closure could be the first of many indie firms working in music. \"For any service that interoperates with content on the open web, yes, we think this is going to get more common, for the next little while anyway. Trends tend to be cyclical. We can all see where the current one is going, but it's hard to say what the next swing of the pendulum might look like.\" Ogle added a note of hope: \"It took, what, 15 years at least for the web to get to what is now thought of the glory days of the 'open web'. I'd like to believe that we might have a similar golden era of interoperability around the corner for our post-web, device-led world, but it's anyone's guess.\" While Jam is shutting down, the pair are eager to reassure users that their data isn't going anywhere. Unusually for a deceased social service, the full content of the site will be archived permanently, ensuring that links continue to work for the foreseaable future. Donovan said: \"It's pretty exciting to try and set a new bar for discontinuing something digital. It's a cool opportunity to design something permanent (an anomaly in our industry!) and we want to look back on this and feel proud of the final state we left things in. \"In the physical world, when a manufacturer wants to discontinue a product, eg industrial design or fashion, they just do. Super fans and collectors can always find that thing on eBay if they're desperate. This paradigm doesn't exist in the digital world yet. We wanted to create the equivalent of that, a place where the people who love it most could access it.\" \"Linkrot is pretty awful,\" Ogle added \"I guess we're a bit Grumpy Old Web People about that.\" For distraught fans looking for an alternative to the site, music site Popjustice has annointed a successor: mobile app Cymbal. \"We've seen a few 'WhatsApp for music' / 'Tinder for music' apps floating around over the last year or so but this looks like it's a lot better,\" the site reports.",
  "title": "This Is My Jam shuts down after losing battle for the open web",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/digital-music-and-audio",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/social-media",
    "music/music",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "culture/culture",
    "music/music-streaming",
    "technology/apps"
  ],
  "lead": "The music discovery service was created for a web that no longer exists, its founders say",
  "id": "technology/2015/aug/10/this-is-my-jam-music-website-shuts-down-open-web",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}