{
  "content": "The bad news is that some users woke up this morning (or noticed last night) that their personal icons had been replaced by the generic Twitter-supplied version that makes users look like newbies. The good news is that at least it's not the old icon (o_O), which looks horrible. In one of Twitter's continuing attempts to give itself a facelift, the original icon has just been replaced by an attractive new one that features a little bird. It's even available in different colours, though these seem to be assigned at random. Twitter is aware of the problem, and posted a note on its status page: We're working on a bug whereby the default avatar is showing up for users who have previously uploaded their own image. We hope to resolve this soon. Update (5:30p): We've identified the root cause of this problem and expect the issue to be resolved within the next several hours. It's not the first time that random people have lost their personal icons, but there's no hint as to whether it's the same problem as before, or whether Twitter has found a new one. In some cases, users have also lost their personalised backgrounds, which have been replaced with generic versions. Last time around, the personalised icons reappeared all by themselves, though some people have been reuploading them. (But I wouldn't bet on every Twitter user having a back-up copy of their icon and background.) Concerned Guardian readers will no doubt be overjoyed to hear that my icon has survived at @jackschofield, and I have a back-up because I just used the one I already had at Facebook. I was assuming that in the long run, Facebook would buy Twitter and the two services would merge. However, this looks increasingly unlikely. Unconfirmed reports suggest that Twitter is getting another $50m in funding, which values the company at $1bn, while Facebook is building its own version of Twitter, using @mentions instead of @replies etc.",
  "title": "Avatar loss horror afflicts twittering classes",
  "lead": "In a round of accidental depersonalisation, Twitter has \"lost\" some users' personal icons and backgrounds, and temporarily replaced them with a bird avatar. Twitter says it is fixing the problem\u2026.",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/blog/2009/sep/18/twitter-bird-avatar",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}