{
  "content": "You'd think it natural that writers would be good at Twitter \u2013 after all, words are their bread and butter. However, some authors have found themselves host to extremely boring feeds, or have misread the medium altogether, never quite understanding what a \"mention\" is, or a bit.ly link. It's a sad state of affairs when politicians are better at Twitter than literature's experts. There are, however, a bunch of authors who have perfected their Twitter presence, in some cases earning millions of followers to go with that prized blue tick. Margaret Atwood and Neil Gaiman are the leading examples, but here we offer 10 alternatives whose tweets make our hearts sing. Gary Shteyngart The American-Russian author of brilliant comic novels such as The Russian Debutante's Handbook is just as much fun on Twitter. Fond of selfies documenting his travels, Shteyngart's current timeline features a photograph of him kissing a koala bear (he's in Australia right now). There is also a Tumblr collection of his famous blurbs. Occasionally guilty of retweeting his own praise, but hey, nobody's perfect. Teju Cole Cole is a master of Twitter \u2013 he mixes brilliant bon mots, vignettes of poetry, art, pop culture references, photography (like this series on celebrities watching themselves on television) and quotes to make his timeline an always entertaining read. The Open City writer has the form nailed. Follow. Joyce Carol Oates JCO is one of literature's leading voices who has managed to bring her wit and wisdom to the internet. I've picked her over Margaret Atwood as Atwood's feed, though great, veers slightly too much towards local interest \u2013 if you're not living in either Toronto, Ottawa or Vancouver, a lot of it will be irrelevant. JCO, on the other hand, is superb at a timely one-liner on whichever news story is currently doing the rounds. She's also good at selecting quotes and distilling political opinion. Plus she's very funny, and retweets stuff like this. Paulo Coelho Racking up a formidable 9.22 million followers, Coelho is a Twitter behemoth. Fond of a vintage-filtered photograph (see below), his tweets range from football (his picture with Ronaldo), to quotes from philosophers, to retweets of news from the literary world. He also tweets in Portuguese and has just joined VK.com, the Russian version of Facebook. Joe Dunthorne The critically acclaimed Submarine author excels at tweeting. Not only is he a wonderful purveyor of the one-liner, he also retweets stuff as good as his own hilariously on-point observations. He's basically very good at seeking out the best shareable humour on the internet, like this average guitarist classified advert. He doesn't tend to tweet articles or news sources, preferring to keep it pop. Jackie Collins Jackie Collins's Twitter stream is exactly as you'd expect it to be. She spells pics \"pix\" and poses at events with a smile buried in lipstick. She never uses just the one exclamation mark!!! 99% of her tweets are just links to her Facebook page!!! Like Cher, WHO TWEETS IN ALL CAPS, Jackie is worth following for the LOLZ. Oh, and she likes R'n'B crooner Usher. Sloane Crosley Sloane Crosley is the author of two brilliant essay collections, I Was Told There'd Be Cake and How Did You Get This Number. (She also wrote this piece on insomnia for the Guardian last week). Tweeting from NYC, her feed is a witty stream of perfectly expressed thoughts on creativity and productivity, friends and her mum. Even the notes in her iPhone are worth reading. Alain de Botton The writer, philosopher and TV presenter is sometimes serious, sometimes light-hearted: either way, his feed is always interesting. He also tweets a lot of art and photography, and links to many articles. Crap profile picture though. Irvine Welsh From tweets about his beloved Hibernian FC to music, travel and the state of journalism: Welsh's feed is bound to throw up something of interest. He also owns the best T-shirt in the world, a mash-up of Joy Division's Unknown Pleasures sleeve artwork and cats. He tweeted it here. Too many retweets, though, and not enough original Welsh. Augusten Burroughs Aside from the fact his profile picture shows him covering half his face with his hand (yo, Augusten, that's not how a portrait works), Burroughs is very good at Twitter. He mixes retweets of other people's funnies (especially the brilliant Julieanne Smolinski) with his own one-liners. Then he just adds a load of weird stuff in, like this, for example.",
  "title": "10 authors who are brilliant at Twitter",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "books/books",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "books/irvinewelsh",
    "books/alain-de-botton",
    "books/joe-dunthorne",
    "books/jackie-collins",
    "books/paulocoelho",
    "books/joyce-carol-oates",
    "books/gary-shteyngart"
  ],
  "lead": "They can write books, but can they tweet? Here are 10 authors you should follow",
  "id": "books/booksblog/2014/may/27/10-authors-who-are-brilliant-at-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}