{
  "content": "The New York mayoral candidate Anthony Weiner vowed to press ahead with his longshot bid for political rehabilitation on Tuesday, after admitting that he was the subject of an explicit self-taken picture published earlier in the day. Weiner called a press conference to address the latest allegations he had continued to exchange sexually explicit messages with young women even after he resigned his Congressional seat because of similar revelatons in June 2011. His wife, Huma Abedin, a top aide to Hillary Clinton, made a surprise appearance to defend him. \"Anthony's made some horrible mistakes,\" Abedin said, speaking for the first time at a campaign news conference. \"I love him, I forgive him, and I believe in him. And as we have said from the beginning, we are moving forward.\" A picture of Weiner's penis was published by the entertainment site The Dirty on Tuesday, with accompanying text that said it was sent to a young woman in the latter half of 2012. The account posted on The Dirty describes phone sex and other details from an interaction said to have lasted until December 2012, just months before Weiner declared his candidacy for mayor. The account said Weiner and the woman exchanged messages over Facebook and the social networking site Formspring, and that the user alleged to be Weiner also used the nickname \"Carlos Danger\". According to the website, Weiner renewed contact in April, asking the woman what he thought of a favourable New York Times magazine profile of Weiner and Abedin which was widely seen at the time as an attempt to pave the way for a political comeback. When he launched his campaign to succeed Michael Bloomberg, in May, Weiner said that further evidence of his online affairs could emerge. But he acknowledged for the first time on Tuesday that his sexting had continued even after he had to resign over it. \"Some have asked the question, where does this fit in, some timeline,\" Weiner said. \"Some of these things happened before my resignation, some of them happened after, but the fact is that this was the time that my wife and I were working through these things in our marriage.\" The couple projected a united front, standing side by side at a microphone bank and watching attentively as the other spoke. Abedin smiled nervously as her husband began speaking. Weiner stood with pursed lips as Abedin described his mistakes. \"When we faced this two years ago, it was the beginning of a time in our marriage that was very difficult, and it took us a very long time to get through this,\" Abedin said. \"Our marriage, like many others, has had its ups and its downs.\" \"It took a lot of work and a whole lot of therapy,\" she said, emphasising the phrase \"whole lot.\" In a question period following their statements, Weiner rejected the suggestion that he should resign over the behaviour. \"I'm sure some of my opponents would like me to,\" he said.   It was unclear how the latest revelations would affect Weiner's bid for the Democratic nomination. A Quinnipiac poll released early last week found Weiner out front in the mayoral race, 25% to 22% over city council speaker Christine Quinn. However a New York Times/Siena College poll released late in the week showed Quinn with a sizable 27-18 lead over Weiner among registered voters in New York. The New York Times took immediate revenge for apparently falling for Weiner's charms in April. In a blistering editorial, it said Weiner should \"take his marital troubles and personal compulsions out of the public eye, away from cameras, off the web and out of the race for mayor of New York City\". Noting that Weiner had vowed to fight on, it added: \"To those who know his arrogance and have grown tired of the tawdry saga he has dragged the city into, this is not surprising.\" In the Times magazine profile that Weiner allegedly drew to the attention of his latest online acquaintance, Abedin described her reaction to the discovery of Weiner's original transgressions. \"I felt like I was in an airplane really high in the air, and all of a sudden, the plane is coming apart at the seams, and I am just doing all I can to hang on for dear life,\" she said. \"That is what it felt like.\" Abedin was pregnant with the couple's 18-month-old son, Jordan, when Weiner's online conduct first came to light. On Tuesday, Abedin said that she had not reconsidered her decision not to seek a divorce. \"It was not an easy choice in any way,\" she said. \"But I made the decision that it was worth staying in this marriage. That was a decision I made for me, for our son, and for our family.\" The news conference was held at the Gay Men's Health Crisis headquarters, where Weiner had a previously scheduled event.",
  "title": "Weiner sticks to mayoral race with wife at his side despite new sex photo",
  "lead": "New York mayoral candidate admits he is subject of explicit image as wife Huma Abedin renews pledge of support",
  "tags": [
    "us-news/anthony-weiner",
    "us-news/new-york",
    "us-news/us-politics",
    "us-news/democrats",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "world/2013/jul/23/anthony-weiner-huma-abedin",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}