{
  "content": "Actor Hugh Grant is due to join the parents of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler at the high court on Monday to tell Lord Justice Leveson's inquiry into media standards about how their lives have been affected by press intrusion. Bob and Sally Dowler are the first of five core participant victims of press intrusion provisionally scheduled to give evidence to the Leveson inquiry on Monday, followed by Grant. The Dowlers, who received a \u00a32m settlement for phone hacking from News International, plus a \u00a31m personal donation from Rupert Murdoch to charities of their choice, are likely to give powerful testimony about their treatment by the defunct Sunday tabloid, which they claim wrote front-page stories based on information gained by accessing Milly's mobile as well as their own phones. Messages left on Milly's phone were deleted by the paper to make way for new ones while she was missing in 2002 [see footnote]. Grant, who has become a fierce critic of the tabloid press over phone hacking, is expected to launch a full scale assault on the Daily Mail and News of the World. Earlier on Friday the high court judge, Mr Justice Tugendhat, explained why he had granted an injunction against \"unbearable\" paparazzi from stalking the mother of Grant's baby. Actor Tinglan Hong disclosed the full details of the menacing calls she had received telling her to \"tell Hugh Grant to shut the fuck up\" when he was on Question Time talking about phone hacking. The Dowlers and Grant will be joined on Monday by Jude Law's lawyer, Graham Shear, and Joan Smith, the writer and former partner of Labour MP Dennis MacShane. Monday will be the start of five days of sustained and uncomfortable criticism of the press by 21 celebrities and public figures who are alleged victims of intrusion and have been chosen to give evidence to the inquiry into media standards. On Tuesday the actor Steve Coogan, who has also railed against the press, will be among the witnesses, followed by Elle Macpherson's former adviser Mary Ellen Field, the ex Premier League footballer Garry Flitcroft and Margaret Watson, the mother of a 16-year-old schoolgirl who was murdered in 1991. Watson is not a name that will stand out in the cast of core participants, but her story could be among the most pertinent. Watson and her husband have fought a 20-year campaign to reform defamation laws in Scotland in a challenge to the convention that the dead cannot be libelled. On Wednesday Paul Gascoigne's former wife Sheryl will give evidence as will Mark Lewis, the solicitor who has helped expose the extent of phone hacking at the News of the World. He will tell how he was the focus of a covert surveillance operation by the paper while the investigation into phone hacking was going on as part of an alleged plot to smear him. Also scheduled for Wednesday is Gerry McCann, whose daughter Madeleine went missing from their holiday apartment in Portugal in May 2007. McCann is expected to tell how his wife Kate felt \"mentally raped\" when her private diaries appeared in the News of the World and how they battled against a hostile press who wrongly believed they had been involved in the disappearance of their child. Thursday will be another busy day at London's high court with evidence due to be given by actor Sienna Miller, Harry Potter author JK Rowling, former formula one boss Max Mosley and solicitor Mark Thomson, who has been acting for Hugh Grant in the phone-hacking investigation. The Leveson inquiry will not sit on Friday and will resume on Monday 28 November when Charlotte Church and Anne Diamond will appear alongside former army intelligence officer Ian Hurst, the Bristol landlord Christopher Jefferies who was arrested over the murder of Joanne Yates but released without charge, and Jane Winter, a peace activist. \u2022 The following was published on 12 December 2011 in the corrections and clarifications column: An article about the investigation into the abduction and death of Milly Dowler (News of the World hacked Milly Dowler's phone during police hunt, 5 July, page 1) stated that voicemail \"messages were deleted by [NoW] journalists in the first few days after Milly's disappearance in order to free up space for more messages. As a result friends and relatives of Milly concluded wrongly that she might still be alive.\" Since this story was published new evidence \u2013 as reported in the Guardian of 10 December \u2013 has led the Metropolitan police to believe that this was unlikely to have been correct and that while the News of the World hacked Milly Dowler's phone the newspaper is unlikely to have been responsible for the deletion of a set of voicemails from the phone that caused her parents to have false hopes that she was alive, according to a Metropolitan police statement made to the Leveson inquiry on 12 December. \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\". \u2022 To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook.",
  "title": "Leveson inquiry: Hugh Grant and Dowlers to give evidence on Monday",
  "lead": "Actor and parents of murdered schoolgirl likely to be first of phone-hacking victims to give evidence. By Lisa O'Carroll",
  "tags": [
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/press-intrusion"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2011/nov/18/leveson-inquiry-hugh-grant-dowlers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}