{
  "content": "Newspapers have won a last-minute reprieve over longstanding government plans for a clampdown on journalists who illegally buy personal data such as health, bank and telephone records. The decision is likely to see the government accused of pandering to powerful media interests. Associated Newspapers, under editor-in-chief Paul Dacre, and Rupert Murdoch's News International are understood to have lobbied prime minister Gordon Brown hard against a clause in the proposed bill that would see journalists sent to jail if found guilty of infringing the new rules. However, both sides can claim a victory of sorts as the clause is expected to be put on the statute book and then suspended. Against media lobbying to remove journalists from the law, the information commissioner, Richard Thomas, who has led calls for the change, can claim that clause 76 of the criminal justice and immigration bill can be invoked at a future date. David Leigh, the assistant editor (investigations) at the Guardian, said: \"This was never a threat to serious investigative journalists, who don't tend to use private detectives in quite the same way.\" Others were calling it a \"last chance saloon\" for the press. \"The information commissioner is pleased that the government has apparently resisted substantial pressure to abandon clause 76 of the criminal justice and immigration bill,\" a spokesman for Thomas said. \"Although of course we would have preferred the clause to have remained unchanged, we understand that the justice secretary will be able to introduce prison sentences if illegal activity continues. \"Our aim has always been to deter and this will now be a powerful Sword of Damocles hanging over the heads of anyone involved in obtaining personal data. \"The information commissioner strongly values press freedom and freedom of speech, and hopes that all journalists will steer well clear of the sort of practices which - in the words of one newspaper - will 'poison the well for all journalism'.\" Earlier this week the Guardian reported that the prime minister had demanded that longstanding plans to increase penalties for illegally securing personal information were to be scrapped. The press behaviour complained of has been illegal for 15 years. But because the current penalties are only fines, the law has been widely flouted, not only by newspapers, but also by City law firms acting in business disputes. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Newspapers win personal data reprieve",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Newspapers have won a last-minute reprieve over plans for a clampdown on journalists who illegally buy personal data. By Staff reporter",
  "id": "media/2008/apr/03/privacy.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}