{
  "content": "It seems we can't get enough of taking selfies, but I'm always surprised when I speak to brands about them. Many dismiss them as simple narcissism (maybe even a sign of psychopathy) with little use and \u2013 at worst \u2013 something that causes a disliking for their target group. Yet, there is value for brands (and even beauty) in them if you go a little deeper behind the lens. Selfies have been around for hundreds of years in the form of self-portraits. They were as they are today, a representation of an individual created by the individual. Yet throughout history there was no outcry when people began painting themselves. As with all shifts, it is important to understand what changed in order to understand the phenomenon now. In short, technology changed; the control exerted on the image, ubiquity and lack of expertise required to create a selfie often makes the viewer (depending on the relationship to the subject) uncomfortable. Certainly jealousy can and does play a part, but ultimately the viewer is frustrated for several reasons \u2013 mostly because of the unpalatable nature of people showing off or seeking to attract attention. You could say, \"it's just not British\" but Manchester (#7) and Leeds (#19) rank in the top 20 cities for selfie per person (London was a distant 93rd). It's easy to see the bad selfies we hear about and group them into one big messy pile but this isn't helping your brand. Most brands (not all) aren't doing a great job of harnessing this cultural shift. So how can we turn this around? Brands need to look at selfies differently Brands must see the selfie as an entire product (setting, composition, filter, angle, hashtag \u2026 the list goes on). I shuddered when selfie was ushered into the Oxford dictionary \u2013 it just didn't (and still doesn't) feel quite right yet its very happening is significant. It's important that brands and individuals begin looking at and thinking about selfies differently, not all are created equal. Many selfies are brags (humble or otherwise), but many have intentions beyond this. A selfie that has a \"look at me\" message is very different to selfie that is \"look at me here or with this item of significance to me\" \u2013 brands need to understand the difference. Use selfies differently Brands have to stop thinking selfies are for young people who have identity issues or a way of simply adding volume to campaigns, and start looking for the next generation of brand storytellers. There is a world of creativity out there if you stop to look for it. Fashion really is leading the charge in this respect but if the #SelfieOlympics showed us anything it's that creativity is indeed global. When not to use selfies Brian Eden's Tell Us Your Story showcases how badly the mark is being missed in marketing agencies around the world. Brands must understand how and when to use a selfie campaign by understanding the selfie itself \u2013 provide the consumer with a good reason to create content for you and you might be rewarded. Gaming people into shilling for you is more of an art these days than a science \u2013 don't be a travelling salesman, take it seriously and put down roots. Paul Armstrong runs Here/Forth and is the creator of C_ncentrate and @themediaisdying. You can follow him on Twitter @paul__armstrong To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled 'Advertisement feature'. Find out more here.",
  "title": "Brands should look again at using selfies in their marketing campaigns",
  "lead": "Paul Armstrong: Instead of dismissing selfies as simple narcissism, brands should explore how to harness this cultural shift ",
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/instagram",
    "technology/snapchat",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media-network/2015/may/05/brands-selfies-marketing-campaigns",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}