{
  "content": "Introducing Graph Search in March 2013, Facebook created a powerful engine that generates results based on exactly what users want to see. Initially, its roll-out was limited to just a handful of US English users. To monitor precisely how the feature was doing, Facebook continued this gradual roll-out, introducing the feature more broadly to all US English users in July 2013, and UK English users in November 2013. It is now available to hundreds of millions of English-speaking users. On launching, the feature certainly had the potential to transform the digital advertising space and take on some of the search engine giants such as Google, Yahoo! and Yelp, but one year on, how is it faring? Facebook recently announced record quarterly results, which were directly linked to advertising revenues shooting up 76% on the same period last year. Yet in 2013, Facebook still only accounted for 5.7% of all global digital advertising revenues, significantly lower than Google's share at 32.4%. Does Graph Search hold the key to helping Facebook boost its digital advertising revenue share? Graph Search uses natural-language processing (NLP) to analyse Facebook's vast pool of user-generated information and enhance its search capabilities. This raw data is processed by the Graph Search engine and then presented to the consumer as clean information that they can use however they wish. Few companies have run large-scale NLP applications as well as Facebook has done with Graph Search. People can use Graph Search to find out which restaurants are worth visiting in a particular area or which hotels their friends have recommended. Taking this one step further, Facebook is in a position to use the Graph Search platform to help local businesses identify and connect with potential customers. If these users could be targeted with a relevant display advert at the right time, conversion rates would surely increase, making advertising space on Graph Search incredibly valuable. As signalled by its latest quarterly results, mobile advertising played a key role in pushing Facebook's revenues north, so it was a smart move to introduce Graph Search to mobile devices this February, albeit a little delayed. It will now be interesting to see how the extension to mobile will translate into increasing Facebook's advertising revenues even further. What will also be interesting to monitor is how search data will be used on Graph Search in relation to advertising. Search is the best indicator of consumer intent. By allowing advertisers to target consumers based on the keywords they enter into Graph Search, Facebook could seriously start to increase its advertising revenues. This is because advertisers would be willing to pay more to get their adverts in front of users they know will click through and convert. It's yet to be seen whether search adverts will be introduced to Graph Search, or if so, whether consumers will be willing to share their personal information with Facebook for this purpose. Whilst Facebook has always maintained that user experience will always come first, search advertising could actually reduce the number of irrelevant adverts being displayed to users, improving the experience for consumers browsing the network. We haven't yet seen the best of Graph Search, but that certainly doesn't mean its days are numbered. What it has already done for digital advertising is pave the way for search data to be used to interact with social networkers and better understand their intent. It will now be intriguing to monitor Facebook's moves to see what it has up its sleeve next for Graph Search and how the feature fits into its grand plans for ad tech. Dominic Joseph is the co-founder and CEO of Captify Get more articles like this sent direct to your inbox by signing up for free membership to the Guardian Media Network \u2013 this content is brought to you by Guardian Professional.",
  "title": "Facebook's Graph Search: one year on",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": "While the service hasn't yet set the digital advertising world on fire, it does pave the way for better understanding of user intent",
  "id": "media-network/media-network-blog/2014/mar/05/facebook-graph-search-digital-advertising",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}