{
  "content": "The Labour MP Tom Watson has called for a full judicial inquiry into allegations of widespread illegal phone-hacking at the News of the World. Watson, a former minister, has written to No 10 asking David Cameron to set up a wide-ranging inquiry into the relationship between the Metropolitan Police and News International, which publishes the News of the World. The letter is addressed to the deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg, because Cameron is on paternity leave. A judicial inquiry has the legal authority to subpoena witnesses and would enjoy similar powers to those handed to the Hutton inquiry into the death of the weapons scientist David Kelly in 2003. Watson's intervention follows a New York Times report published online late on Wednesday which alleged that the Met failed to pass evidence of phone-hacking to the Crown Prosection Service. According the New York Times: \"The officials didn't discuss certain evidence with senior prosecutors, including the notes suggesting the involvement of other reporters, according to a senior prosecutor on the case. The prosecutor was stunned to discover later that the police had not shared everything. 'I would have said we need to see how far this goes' and 'whether we have a serious problem of criminality on this news desk,' said the former prosecutor.\" Referring to this allegation in his letter to No 10, Watson wrote: \"The testimony given to the NYT is that the police did not share all the relevant information with the CPS. And that if they had done, the CPS would have reached different conclusions. These are clear grounds for a judicial inquiry. Please can you confirm your intention to recommend one.\" Watson also called for a full investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission into the paper's allegations of collusion between News International and the Met. \"The New York Times also suggests direct police collusion with a commercial media organisation, an investigator alleging that a Metropolitan Police press officer attempted to suppress investigation in order to protect the police's \"long-term relationship with News International,\" he wrote. \"Please can you confirm that the Independent Police Complaints Commission will investigate this serious allegation from a highly reputable source without delay.\" The New York Times alleged last night that Andy Coulson, the Conservative Party's director of communications, actively encouraged reporters to obtain information by hacking into mobile phones and listening to voicemail messages when he was editor of the News of the World. The paper quoted an ex-News of the World journalist, Sean Hoare, a former friend of Coulson, saying he personally played recordings of hacked voicemail messages for him when both men worked at the News of the World's sister title The Sun. Later, according to the paper, when Hoare worked for Coulson at the News of the World, he \"continued to inform Coulson of his pursuits. Coulson 'actively encouraged me to do it', Hoare said\". According to the New York Times, Hoare says that he was fired from the paper \"during a period when he was struggling with drugs and alcohol\"; this would undermine his credibility as a witness if there were to be any further action against the News of the World. The New York Times also quotes an unnamed former editor who worked for News International claiming that Coulson talked openly about illegal phone-tapping techniques. Coulson has always maintained he know nothing about the activity and said in response to the New York Times story: \"I absolutely deny these allegations.\" News International executives told the Commons culture select committee that Clive Goodman \u2013 the paper's former royal editor, who was jailed for intercepting voicemail messages in January 2007 along with a private investigator, Glenn Mulcaire \u2013 acted alone. Coulson resigned as News of the World editor after Goodman was jailed. The New York Times also alleged that the Met had not passed full details about how many people were victims of the illegal practice to the CPS because it has a history of cooperation with News International titles. It quoted an unnamed prosecutor who expressed surprise that the Met had failed to alert it to evidence that suggested other News of the World reporters had indulged in the practice on Coulson's watch. The New York Times report, which be published in the paper's weekend magazine on Sunday, revealed that three people \u2013 including Brian Paddick, a former Met commander \u2013 are seeking a judicial review into Scotland Yard's handling of the case. Watson is a member of the Commons culture select committee, which reopened its investigation into press standards after the Guardian revealed last year that News International had paid off three victims of phone-hacking, including the PFA chief executive Gordon Taylor, in exchange for their silence. Paul Farrelly, the Labour MP for Newcastle-under-Lyme, who is also a member of the committee, criticised the Metropolitan Police today and called on them to make more evidence available. \"The police must come clean on all the evidence they collected, why much of it was not shown to prosecutors and why all suspected victims have not been alerted,\" he said. \"For one of the most senior of its former officers [Brian Paddick] to request a judicial review of the police investigation is unprecedented and the Met needs to let the public know its response.\" Farrelly added that MPs were likely to consider the fresh revelations when parliament reconvenes next week. \"With Andy Coulson our inquiry hit a brick wall of silence and amnesia. There is plenty more in the NYT article, however, which suggests illegal phone-hacking was rife and not limited to just the former royal editor and one private investigator,\" he said. \"The select committee will, no doubt, want to discuss the NYT article and any further developments or responses. The NYT article further shines further light into this murky affair, in which both News International and the Metropolitan Police have so far been evasive, to say the least.\" The Met issued a statement today denying that it failed to pass on key evidence. \"The Met does not consider that the issues raised by the New York Times accurately reflect how the investigation was conducted, constitute new evidence, or lead us to change our position\", it said. \"The CPS had full access to all the evidence gathered and the final indictment appropriately represented the criminality uncovered. \"The case was the subject of the most careful investigation by very experienced detectives and has been subject to extensive independent scrutiny by the CPS, director of public prosecutions, and the House of Commons culture, media and sport committee. \"The Met has considered whether matters raised by the media or elsewhere constituted new evidence that merited further investigation. We considered then, and we remain of the view, that no new evidence has emerged to justify re-opening this inquiry. Independently, the CPS, leading counsel and the director of public prosecutions reached the same conclusion.\" \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. \u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "MP demands judicial inquiry into News of the World phone-hacking claims",
  "lead": "Former Labour minister writes to Downing Street calling for investigation with subpoena powers after New York Times allegations. By James Robinson",
  "tags": [
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/andy-coulson",
    "politics/politics",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2010/sep/02/mp-news-of-the-world-inquiry",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}