{
  "content": "Digital media are playing an important role in today's celebration of the fall of the Berlin wall. It is interesting that much of the mainstream press have left their historical medium behind for their online coverage, as each have chosen the format which is best for a story. For example, the Guardian has put some impressive films online in which Berliners describe how the city was divided while, readers of the New York Times submitted magnificent photos and memories of the wall and the BBC has displayed in a map how far pieces of the former wall have spread around the globe. In addition to an interactive mainstream coverage, there are several social media projects worth looking at. The Berlin Twitterwall supported by Reporters without Borders displays Twitter messages which are using the hashtag #fotw on a virtual East Side Gallery. The aim of the project is to share thoughts on the fall of the wall as well as to focus on \"which walls still have to come down to make our wold a better place\". The page was blocked in China after nearly 2,000 web users in the country left messages on the wall. To prevent spam, users can only post up to five messages a day. Additional camera icons can be clicked to view some of the 1,000 huge styrofoam dominoes painted with messages of peace by students, celebrities and politicians. These dominoes are the center piece of tonight's festivities as they snake along the old wall line and are supposed to be toppled during the celebrations. The Berlin Project by five young reporters also uses social media, but is not a crowd-source project. The aim of the project is to explore the use of mobile media and social platforms to cover today's celebration. The News 2.0 project by former students of the City University's Graduate School of Journalism is backed up by Reuters and will try to demonstrate the possibilities for innovation within journalism available with new media. A third project is The Mauer Mob, in which British performance artist and curator Martin Butler is using the organisational power of today's online platforms for a wall made of people, a \"temporary monument of reflection\". 20 years after the wall came down 33,000 people are asked to stand united for 15 minutes to form a human chain marking the path where the wall once stood. The Mauer Mob used social media such as Facebook to reach out to the people and organise the event. On their website they rearranged the volunteers along 330 different sectors where they will start the flashmob tonight at 9.15 pm. And these are only some social media approaches among others. Indeed, it will be interesting to evaluate afterwards if it really made sense to use social media, or if it was more or less just used, because it is a trendy idea.",
  "title": "The fall of the Berlin wall in digital media",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "travel/berlin",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Projects such as the Berlin Twitterwall, the Mauer Mob and the Berlin Project are being used as a testbed for journalism and social media. By Mercedes Bunz",
  "id": "media/pda/2009/nov/09/fall-of-berlin-wall-digital-media-social-networks",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}