{
  "content": "Many of us have become accustomed to using social networking sites to discover new music, meet new friends and keep in touch with old ones. But the latest trend is to use sites like MySpace, Bebo and Facebook as places where we can go to find help and inspiration for our next trip away. Last week, one of the net's biggest travel brands joined the party with the launch of its own MySpace page. Travelocity's Roaming Gnome (myspace.com/roaminggnome) is the latest member to seek out friends on the social networking site. In a way, the Gnome is a marketing gimmick, with a bit of added value for MySpace members: make the Gnome your friend and special deals are offered in return. But while its interesting that MySpace is becoming the target of marketing departments, what's more interesting is how regular users are working the site to plan trips around the world. For instance, if you've ever fancied a long, overland trip and are a member of the site, you could consider joining the MySpace group UK2oz, which describes itself as a \"small but growing collective who're mad enough to be considering travelling overland from the UK to Australia in mid August 2007.\" The group invites you to \"come and discuss, enquire and prepare for an experience of a lifetime.\" There are already 35 members who have committed to the adventure. Alternatively, if it's a Jack Kerouac-inspired road trip across America you're after, then the \"grassroots bookstore tourism movement\") could be the MySpace group for you. Here, you are invited to join a busload of \"book addicts as they take a bookstore road trip to the indie bookshops of Greenwich Village in New York and LA's beach towns.\" But if you are really serious about travelling, these sites are far better suited than MySpace: Yahoo's Trip Planner) for planning group trips; travellersconnected.co.uk is better at helping you find new people to travel with; if it's local information you are looking for, then head for like-a-local.com; and Where are you now? (WAYN.com) is better at keeping you in touch with people you met when you were away. But the appeal of using MySpace for travel-related networking is that the people you already know and those you meet along the way are much more likely to have a MySpace account. sean.dodson@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Best of the net: MySpace or yours?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "travel/best-of-the-net",
    "travel/travel",
    "travel/travelwebsites",
    "technology/myspace",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/web20",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "MySpace or yours?",
  "id": "travel/2007/apr/14/saturday.travelwebsites",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}