{
  "content": "In October last year I wrote a column for MediaGuardian that predicted that David Cameron would have to dump Andy Coulson as his communications adviser if he had serious ambitions to become prime minister. In the week that followed I received a number of phone calls from journalists, editors and public relations people, all of them expressing incredulity. While many may have shared my opinion, few were willing to say so publicly. In the media world there is an unwritten rule: do not rock the boat. Andy Coulson is supremely well connected; you learn to criticise such men at your peril. But now it appears that my prediction may come true, and Coulson's time at Tory HQ is running out. Let me explain that I have no vendetta against Andy Coulson. I have worked relatively peacefully with him for more than 10 years, during which time I have promoted various celebrities, TV and brands, and Coulson progressed from pop writer to editor. My observation is simply that the tabloid culture of recent years - perhaps inspired by the former Sun editor Kelvin MacKenzie - has focused on selling newspapers rather than reporting the truth. Vested interest and self-preservation have dominated who gets which stories, what gets kept quiet and who gets exposed. Along the way journalists have learned to bully, intimidate and pursue their subjects using any means. It always seemed ridiculous to me that a former editor of Coulson's roguish reputation could become head of communications for a serious political party. Ten years ago Alastair Campbell demonstrated the brute power of PR for the Labour government. It ended in disaster. And though both he and Coulson jumped from Fleet Street to political PR, there are important differences in the DNA of the two men. Campbell was a political journalist - with previous links to the Labour party and to the former party leader Neil Kinnock - and by the time he reached Downing Street, all his dirty washing (his drinking and his pornographic writings, for example) was out in the open. Coulson's friendships and his ascent up the News Corp corporate ladder have never been closely scrutinised. If it is now revealed that a number of front-page scoops and expos\u00e9s of politicians and celebrities were obtained using illegal methods, then his professional status suddenly becomes fragile. David Cameron and his team have worked hard to establish their claim to new ground, away from the world of cronyism, bungs and secret deals. With Cameron seeming to impress voters with his response to the MPs' expenses scandal, it had looked as if Coulson had begun to lay the ground for a successful autumn campaign. Now all that has changed. While success in politics is often linked to the cult of personality, it is also dependent upon the health of the party's brand. In marketing terms, the Tories have done well to look as if they want to listen to the ordinary man or woman in the street. But they cannot afford to be linked to an investigation that will probe into the past life of one of its most prominent figures with the possibility of unsavoury revelations. Coulson knows the celebrity world well. It feeds upon its own kind quite happily. What will be decisive now is whether the list of those people whose phones were hacked into by investigators working for the News of the World is published. With several hundred celebrities and prominent people after his blood, Coulson will have little chance of survival. Once he's left the Tories, I guess that he will either return to News Corp or start his own communications agency, where he is certain to make a good living. For the Conservatives, this could be a golden opportunity. Cameron must act decisively. This story allows him to speak clearly on the right to privacy and the extended power of media owners such as Rupert Murdoch. It's a clear chance to show what sort of party he is leading. It is as well that Steve Hilton, Cameron's longtime friend and strategy adviser, is soon to return from the US. His counsel, and that of his wife, Cameron's former PR Rachel Whetstone, will be much needed in the months ahead.",
  "title": "Andy Coulson is a liability the Conservatives cannot afford",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/andy-coulson",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "politics/conservatives",
    "politics/davidcameron",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/news-corporation",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Julian Henry: In October 2008 I predicted David Cameron would have to dump Andy Coulson as his communications adviser if he had serious ambitions to become prime minister",
  "id": "media/2009/jul/13/andy-coulson-conservatives",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}