{
  "content": "A $105,000 damages award to an Australian schoolteacher after a series of defamatory posts on Facebook and Twitter has put the spotlight on how we use social media. Andrew Farley was just one year out of high school when he posted defamatory messages on Facebook and Twitter about Christine Mickle, a teacher at his former high school. The posts, which a New South Wales district court judge found had \"no substance whatsoever\" cost Farley $105,000 \u2013 as well as an order to pay Mickle's legal costs. While cases about the use of Facebook have gone to trial before, this is the first time a decision about particular tweets has progressed this far in Australia. Here are six ways to avoid the situation Farley found himself in on social media. 1. Everyone is a publisher The big message to take away from Farley's case is that we are all publishers on the internet. Everyone who uses platforms such as Facebook and Twitter can have legal action taken against them if someone can show they have lowered their reputation in the eyes of others. A Snapchat or Instagram image which has a defamatory comment could still be enough to land you in legal difficulty. 2. Malicious messages are rarely viewed favourably Be careful when tweeting rumours, half truths or innuendo about people \u2013 and don't tweet in anger. Australia's defamation laws are favourable to people making defamation claims. The absence of a strong guarantee of free speech or a human rights charter has allowed speech in Australia to be quite easily restricted by the parliament. While some aspects of defamation law were wound back in 2005, there are still limited defences available compared with the stronger protections for speech afforded to citizens in the United States. 3. Be cautious with the courts Tweeting or posting on Facebook about ongoing criminal trials can also land people in hot water. Publishing the odd tweet about an old case is probably OK, as long as there aren't ongoing legal proceedings. But if a criminal case is still going, be very careful about what you write online. 4. If you're on a jury, don't Facebook message the defendant In Britain a juror contacted a defendant in a multimillion-pound drug case online because she felt \"empathetic\" towards his situation. cant get anyone to go either no one budging pleeeeeese don't say anything cause jamie they could all miss trial and I will get 4cked to0,\" she wrote to the defendant in one Facebook post. There hasn't been a case like this yet in Australia. 5. Posts other people make on your social media profiles could still leave you vulnerable to legal action One of the oddities about social media is that you can be a publisher in the eyes of the law even if you haven't typed a word. If another person leaves a defamatory Facebook post on your wall and you fail to take it down if somebody objects to it, you can be found to be a publisher of that post. This has been more commonly used against news sites or web forums that fail to take material down after receiving notice, but one contempt of court case in Australia has considered this very scenario \u2013 a business was found guilty of contempt for not taking down Facebook posts made on their wall. 6. You don't have a right to freedom of speech (particularly if you are a public servant) Be careful what you tweet about your work, particularly if you're in the public service. In a recent case an Immigration Department employee, Michaela Banerji, was critical of Australia's refugee policies, politicians and some of her colleagues. The department worked out who the tweeter was and took action to dismiss her. Banerji sought an injunction but the federal circuit court denied it, finding there was no unfettered freedom of political communication for her in the process.",
  "title": "Six things to know to avoid being sued for defamation in Australia",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "law/defamation-law",
    "technology/instagram",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/snapchat",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "If you tweet, have a Facebook account or post photos on Instagram, then congratulations \u2013 you're a publisher. Here is a guide to protecting yourself against legal action on social media",
  "id": "media/2014/mar/05/six-things-to-know-to-avoid-being-sued-for-defamation",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}