{
  "content": "MySpace chief executive Chris DeWolfe exudes the quiet confidence of a man who need never work again. Tall, blond and athletic, the 41-year-old could easily be mistaken for a middle-aged rock star as he strides across the lobby of London's Langham hotel, dressed in the sort of casualwear that only the wealthy can afford. He is richer than most rock stars - he made around \u00a3150m when the business was sold last year - and almost certainly more influential. The website he co-founded three years ago has revolutionised the music industry, enabling artists to reach an audience of millions by placing their material online. Gone are the days when bands armed only with a four-track sent demos to record companies and waited in vain to be 'discovered'. Although it has been around for a while, operating out of offices in Santa Monica and, more recently, Beverly Hills, MySpace came to prominence this year, when it was credited - wrongly, according to some - with bringing to attention Lily Allen and the Arctic Monkeys. Almost overnight, MySpace went from an online hang-out for cooler-than-thou fans to the website your dad is most likely to have heard of. Born in Portland, Oregon but a resident of California, DeWolfe had already made money from previous ventures, including an online marketing company and a data storage firm, by the time he met 31-year-old co-founder Tom Anderson. In many ways he is typical of the generation that grew older - and richer - on the back of two dotcom booms; he has a finance degree and an MBA but wears a long-sleeve top and jeans; an entrepreneur in slacker's clothing. This evening, DeWolfe will be changing into a suit to attend a drinks party hosted by Rupert Murdoch, his new boss. It may be aimed at twentysomethings, but MySpace is all grown up now, firmly established -it has more hits per day than Google - and owned by a septuagenarian mogul. Not everyone likes it, and anti-Murdoch diatribes have been posted on the site, but DeWolfe insists: 'We don't see any backlash. There's always a vocal minority but we just provide a platform for people to express themselves.' Nor has it affected its popularity. Myspace.com receives 35 billion page views every month and has 130 million registered users. 'The vast majority of those are active,' says DeWolfe, and the site is still growing at an impressive rate, adding an average of 320,000 users each day and tripling in size this year. To think that when Murdoch's News Corporation bought MySpace for $580m in July last year, media experts shook their heads in disbelief and scoffed that he'd paid too much. What of the notion that MySpace has taken over the jobs of A&amp;R and marketing from the record companies? 'We've never tried to take credit for breaking bands,' DeWolfe insists. 'It happened more organically than that. The decision to play a song on radio or a video on MTV is taken by a small group of people and depends on how much money the record company wants to spend on marketing. MySpace is about how much people listen to it and it grows virally from there. It's like going over to your friend's house and hearing a song playing in the background.' Nowadays, no new band - and few established ones - would dare do without a MySpace profile and advertisers are using it to target a young audience that is notoriously difficult to reach. But DeWolfe acknowledges the industry has learnt how to exploit it, too. 'It's still one of the key go-to places for bands that are starting up but it's also a key marketing tool for labels.' If MySpace is merely one promotional tool among many, then others could take its place. Music websites are easy to set up and younger competitors, including the less-slick Bebo, are becoming more popular, particularly among schoolchildren. 'Bebo have done more press than us and a lot of people think they've passed us,' says DeWolfe. 'In fact, they were ahead of us in the UK a year ago but we opened up over here nine months ago and since then we've passed them.' DeWolfe is trying to expand the business while preserving its credibility with fickle users. It is a difficult trick - the corporate equivalent of recording a difficult second album - but the early signs are encouraging. This year MySpace has sponsored secret one-off gigs for Primal Scream and the Magic Numbers. Basement Jaxx, the Fratellis and Kasabian made their albums available to MySpace's four million UK users ahead of general release. There are also plans to introduce a service for mobile phones, while global expansion is proceeding apace. It has set up localised sites in Germany and Australia since the summer and is now in six countries. 'The numbers support what I'm saying,' DeWolfe says. 'MySpace has become part of people's everyday lives.' Music will remain central, he says, describing his own taste as eclectic. 'The first concert I went to was the Rolling Stones in Seattle. I took a Greyhound bus up there with a bunch of friends,' he remembers. But he also 'got into hip hop at a pretty early stage' after hearing the Sugarhill Gang's 'Rapper's Delight'. Nowadays he listens mostly to 'pretty simple rock'n'roll' and none of the bands he namechecks - Snow Patrol, U2 and the Red Hot Chili Peppers - could be described as challenging. The 'older stuff', including the Doors and Tom Petty, wouldn't look out of place on your grandad's iPod. If DeWolfe has his way, it's probably only a matter of time before your grandad has a MySpace profile, too.",
  "title": "Mister space man",
  "lead": "It was the year that MySpace changed the music industry for ever. James Robinson meets the website's founder Chris DeWolfe.",
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "music/music",
    "media/media",
    "technology/myspace",
    "business/musicindustry",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2006/dec/10/digitalmedia.musicmonthly",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}