{
  "content": "Since the murder of Jo Cox last month I have kept silent on my heartbreak, not wanting anyone to have to read my incoherent attempts to come to terms with the tragedy. I was also conscious not to be seen to be making a crass political point out of the loss of someone I cared for so deeply. Jo was my boss and I had only known her for a year but by working together every day I had come to feel deep affection for her and her family. I am grieving on a very personal level, uncertain about everything other than the need to continue Jo's fight for a better world. However, with our party now entering a leadership contest I no longer feel able to sit aside without reminding Labour supporters of Jo's words \u2013 \"we have far more in common than that which divides us\". The outpouring of tributes to Jo were both a testament to her character and to the number of people in our movement who share her deeply held belief that love will always be more powerful than hate. Yet too soon after this moment of reflection \u2013 brought together around the world at the #MoreInCommon events to mark Jo's 42nd birthday \u2013 the kindness we all promised to heed in her memory was lost. Within days Labour MPs \u2013 themselves grieving and more fearful than before \u2013 began receiving death threats, relentless online abuse and intimidation in Westminster and their constituencies. As was poignantly written on a pair of boots on the houseboat that carried her husband, Brendan, and their two children to the #MoreInCommon event, Jo was tough as old boots. She was determined to make a difference and never shied away from confrontation. Her willingness to speak out on Syria and the future of the Labour party meant she often received abuse. Though we occasionally talked about it, and sometimes rejoiced in muting online trolls, she had the inner strength to never allow it to affect her actions. But on 16 June it was her beliefs that cost Jo her life. Now, when I see MPs being abused my heart sinks, I remember Jo and often I break down in tears. The Labour party has not been immune from the chaos of Brexit and in this fractious climate we must all consider how best to move forward. As the #ThankyourMP trend showed, Labour MPs are hard-working, dedicated members of their communities. Irrespective of their views our party's leadership, they will be doing all they can in the coming months and years to shield those hit hardest by Brexit. And as they go about offering compassion and kindness to those who now need a Labour government more than ever, everyone in our movement must be willing to offer the same to each other. Our party will face new challenges every day and things may get worse before they get better but this must not become an excuse. While allowing debate during the leadership contest, we must move away from the baseless, nasty and intimidating abuse MPs currently face. We cannot accept the language of \"traitors\" and \"scabs\", T-shirts calling for the eradication of vermin MPs and letters wishing politicians to be \"Coxed\". To progress over the coming months, and to restore faith in politics, we must be able to express our differences while engaging in calm and rational discussion. There is so much that must come out of the tragic passing of Jo, but for now all I ask is for her beliefs not to be lost, and for Labour supporters to remember we will always have more in common.",
  "title": "Jo Cox's tragic death must put an end to the hateful abuse of our MPs | Ruth Price",
  "lead": "Jo was my boss, and her work was guided by the belief that love will always overcome hate. To heed her legacy we must keep our politics free of malice",
  "tags": [
    "politics/politics",
    "politics/labour",
    "politics/labourleadership",
    "technology/internet-safety",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/social-media",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2016/jul/12/jo-cox-death-end-abuse-mps",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}