{
  "content": "Today's extract from What do we mean by local?* concerns the possibility of forging communities through hyperlocal websites. Sarah J Johnson considers the notion through the prism of one particular London-based site, West Hampstead Life I need to declare an interest here: Sarah is studying for an MA in newspaper journalism at City university London, where I teach. And she interviewed me during her research for this chapter... In an age where transport links are better than ever before and transient populations move between cities and countries, communities are breaking down. In a city as large as London the problem is even more acute. As rent skyrockets in pockets of the city, people are pushed out and forced to relocate while others who already own a property remain. In such a climate, how can local news survive? Is there even a need for it when neighbours sometimes don't even know each other to say 'hello' to? Is it any wonder that local papers are struggling with depleted resources and tumbling readerships? Bob Satchwell, the Society of Editors' executive director, said in 2004: \"The bigger the city - and obviously London's the biggest - the greater the problem is with communities breaking down. \"The success of weekly papers is because they are very into community news. Because communities in London are less well defined, that is more difficult to achieve. The irony is that it's these areas that need weekly papers most to develop those communities.\" Local papers are struggling to respond to that need, however, often crippled by publishers more concerned about the bottom line than investing in digital innovation and good journalism. We are left in a world where societies are crying out for good, local journalism. As Charlie Beckett, director of media think tank Polis, puts it: \"In an age of increasing education and individualism there is a growing demand for more open, accessible and informative news media.\" Some people are taking journalism into their own hands and are prepared to help create it themselves \u2013 for free. These efforts often take the form of sites or blogs that utilise social networks to generate an audience, stories and interest. From Twitter to a website Take Jonathan Turton, the face behind hyperlocal blog West Hampstead Life, for example, whose efforts started through Twitter. \"I started to realise that it might be a good way of doing local news. It seemed quite an interesting idea.\" At first, his efforts were an experiment with two aims. Turton wanted to see whether the concept of spreading news on Twitter would work and he wanted to meet new people locally. A resident of the area since 1998, Turton found his friends had begun to scatter. \"I was newly single and trying to rebuild a social life. I like West Hampstead - most people like it. There are places to go but if you don't know anyone then how do you do that?\" The blog came about in June 2009 when Turton posted a short entry about local election results that he could not fit into one tweet. It progressed slowly until the autumn when it started to take off. Page views were largely driven by his Twitter following. The big turning point for the blog was the general election in 2010. It was then that it started to become a separate entity from Twitter. Turton started doing much more in-depth coverage. He interviewed all the candidates and tried to present a balanced view of what was going on. His efforts did not go unnoticed. The Guardian featured him in their Top London Bloggers list in April 2010 and he was the only non-mainstream journalist allowed to attend the election count in his constituency as part of the press pack. The peak in readership came in August when the riots took hold of London. Over a week, Turton's Twitter following increased by about 25%, from around 3,000 to 3,800. Although the area was not heavily affected, panic and worry were rife after a Guardian tweet said that trouble had spread to Kilburn. Turton spent the evening of 8 August allaying people's fears by tweeting what was happening with the help of trusted sources he knew in the area. Fast forward to February 2012 and Turton has 4,227 followers on Twitter. Over the same month his blog has around 4,000 unique visitors and 10,500 page views. His Twitter account, meanwhile, has become the hub of a rich and varied news network that provides timely and relevant news for the residents of West Hampstead. His success proves that people hanker after local news that informs them of what is happening in the community. It should come as no surprise. Rebuilding communities through new media As Charlie Beckett put it: \"Conventional wisdom has always been that communities form most naturally locally, so surely a kind of journalism based on linking people to gather together at that level should succeed?\" Despite all the technological advances and improvements in transport, life is lived locally. In the case of West Hampstead, there are two newspapers that cover the area: the Camden New Journal and the Ham&amp;High. Turton said: \"West Hampstead is very much on the edge of the Camden New Journal's catchment so although they do publish stories, they cover more of what is happening in Camden itself. \"The Ham&amp;High has been losing staff and seems to be struggling to churn out a newspaper every week that has got harder hitting news. \"There are weeks where their West Hampstead news has come from Twitter, either from me or from people I've retweeted.\" Despite this, Turton maintains a good working relationship with both papers, which he regards very highly. If he has a story or a lead that he cannot follow up, he will send it to the papers as a tip-off. Roy Greenslade sees a mutual benefit in this kind of collaboration. \"If I was a local newspaper publisher I would be encouraging hyperlocal sites. You could link to their sites and then they would give you what they've got. In return you will be each other's best friend. You will be the hub and they will form satellites.\" Strengthening the sense of community For publishers, however, this brings up a whole host of problems. They would lose control and think that their audience would leak away to the hyperlocal sites where they would get the news first. For now, West Hampstead Life serves its audience in a distinct manner. Turton's \"labour of love\" may not make money, or employ others, and it may not provide comprehensive coverage, but like all genuine community organisations it has a valuable function. His blog is a way of facilitating people to meet each other and strengthening the sense of community as well as being a platform to share local news, ideas and thoughts. It is about conversations not broadcasting. West Hampstead Life is not just about news, though. Turton's efforts have transcended the digital world. He holds social get-togethers called whampgathers. There have been eight and the latest one saw between 100 and 120 people turn up to a local pub. There have been other success stories as well. A couple of football teams started purely from Twitter. In their second season and third seasons, they ended up coming first and second in their league. Over \u00a31,000 has been raised for the Winch, a local charity that helps disadvantaged young people. And, through West Hampstead Life, Turton has helped people network professionally as well as socially. There have even been a few romantic relationships that have formed. This proves that community spirit is not dead. All Turton has done is to tap into whatever interest is already there and made it easy for people to meet their neighbours. Beyond that, he offers a local news service where local people can connect over micro issues. He said: \"People feel a bit more of an ownership of where they're living, even if they're not going to be here for the long term. I find people are inherently interested in where they live even if they're not invested in it materially in terms of owning property. \"I don't think it's true that people aren't interested in community, I just don't think there are many opportunities for them to realise it.\" Tomorrow: The path to innovation by Jay Rosen *What do we mean by local? is edited by John Mair, Neil Fowler &amp; Ian Reeves and published by Abramis. Available at a special Media Guardian price of \u00a312 from richard@arimapublishing.co.uk",
  "title": "Local newspapers' crisis: yes, hyperlocal sites can work in big cities too",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/hyperlocal-media",
    "uk/london-riots",
    "uk/london",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/theguardian",
    "media/local-newspapers",
    "education/cityuniversity"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade presents a further extract from What do we mean by local? This one deals with the potential of using sites to bring local communities together",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2012/may/29/hyperlocal-media-london-riots",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}