{
  "content": "Whenever Liberty is being interviewed about ID cards or other privacy issues, we normally expect the tired old question \"surely those with nothing to hide have nothing to fear\". Following the jaw-dropping admission yesterday that Revenue and Customs (HMRC) had lost the confidential information of 25 million people, I suspect we've heard it for the last time. The fiasco would almost be comical if not for the fact that it means most of us will spend the next few days nervously scanning our bank details in case our identities have been stolen and accounts emptied. It might be shooting at an open goal to point out that such catastrophic incompetence hardly bodes well for the government's hugely expensive flagship ID card scheme. However, it is a point that needs to be made repeatedly until the whole sorry mess is finally and unceremoniously dumped. Arguments from government circles that ID cards will keep us safe from terrorism, crime, illegal immigration and fraud have been fading for some time, as logic and the experience from other countries indicate they will do nothing of the sort. Hopefully, the government's total inability to keep our sensitive details safe will prove a final death knell. There is, however, another dimension to the HMRC disaster that has not yet been considered. The sheer volume of data lost gave us a snapshot of the vast quantities of information about each of us that is routinely passed between government departments and other public agencies. This might often be justified and necessary. However, increasingly government policy is seeing this data as a potential route into crime detection. Phrases such as \"data matching\" and \"data mining\" now regularly appear in departmental policy papers. At the heart of these techniques is the mass automated profiling and matching of otherwise innocuous information to throw up anomalies that might indicate that some illicit behaviour is taking place. The extent to which these processes are mainstreaming into policy is shown by the fact that data matching for fraud has been placed on a statutory footing for the first time as a little noticed part of the Serious Crime Act 2007 (pdf), which received royal assent on October 30. As technological capabilities to process and analyse data increase to levels unimaginable only a few years ago, data matching and mining are set to be a central part of the brave new world of criminal investigation. This should concern us all for several reasons. It moves us away from traditional practices of relying on intelligence and evidence to indicate criminality by allowing \"fishing expeditions\" where there is no suggestion that any crime has been committed. The use of profiling techniques also takes us into uncomfortable territory at a time when the profiling of airline passengers or of underground passengers has been suggested as a possible security measure. Furthermore, there are question marks over the ability of the aging Data Protection Act to provide robust protection against overzealous or incompetent public bodies. Nothing to hide, nothing to fear? I think not.",
  "title": "A mine of information",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/world",
    "politics/idcards",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology",
    "politics/government-data"
  ],
  "lead": "Gareth Crossman: Lost data crisis: Behind the farce of mislaid discs is a sinister theme about the government's powers to trawl our personal details",
  "id": "commentisfree/2007/nov/21/amineofinformation",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}