{
  "content": "You would have thought that after being challenged by Pippa Middleton to play a game of table tennis, London mayor Boris Johnson would be focusing his sports training around the ping pong table. But Johnson couldn't resist hurling a basketball during a recent media event in the capital \u2013 with a surprising result. There are plenty of surprises of a different sort in our Hidden Man clip and a wonderful unexpected achievement for a seven-year-old cancer patient, Jack Hoffman, when he joined Nebraska's spring game. There are a couple of films coming up that are worth getting excited about. There will be plenty of nostalgia around the 20s when the Great Gatsby, which features new music by Beyonc\u00e9, Lana Del Rey, and Florence + The Machine, is released next month. Starring Leonardo DiCaprio and Carey Mulligan, it is directed by Baz Luhrmann. For those who enjoy a little more action, Elysium, set on ravaged Earth and a luxurious space habitat named Elysium, is a science fiction film written and directed by Neill Blomkamp and starring Matt Damon and Jodie Foster. Finally, let's end with some fun and laughter. How Animals Eat Their Food is very, very silly but will make you chuckle and If Songs Were Real from RTE's Republic of Comedy is a bit rude, but it's bound to raise a smile! Guardian Viral Video Chart. Compiled by Unruly Media and tweaked into shape by Janette Owen 1. Amazing Boris Johnson basketball trick shot No looking back for London mayor 2. Human Chair Scare Prank - Hidden Man Lots of sitting targets 3. If songs were real All together now \u2026 4. The Great Gatsby Trailer Predicted to be a roaring succcess 5. Jack Hoffman with a 69 yard touchdown in the 2013 Nebraska Spring Game Seven-year-old cancer boy's triumph 6. Jon Snow Harlem Shake One Four all 7. How Animals Eat Their Food Beastly goings on at the dinner table 8. Margaret Thatcher on Socialism Iron Lady's last stand 9. Facebook Home \"Airplane\" Will it take-off? 10. Elysium - Official Trailer Sci-fi scorcher Source: Viral Video Chart. Compiled from data gathered at 14:00 on 11 April 2013. The Viral Video Chart is currently based on a count of the embedded videos and links on approximately 2m blogs, as well as Facebook and Twitter.",
  "title": "Guardian Viral Video Chart:  Boris Johnson, Jon Snow and Elysium",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/uk",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/jon-snow",
    "music/beyonce",
    "politics/boris",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": "Beyonc\u00e9 conjures up the 20s in The Great Gatsby, Margaret Thatcher ends the 80s and Facebook looks to the future",
  "id": "media/2013/apr/12/viral-video-chart-12-april-2013",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}