{
  "content": "Your celebrity-gossip website perezhilton.com has just celebrated its 10th birthday. How have our feelings changed towards famous people in that decade? I think people feel more invested in celebrities now. There's the illusion that we know more about their private lives because a lot of celebrities are revealing private information on social media. People really care about Kim Kardashian: they know her, they watch her, they follow her on social media, they know about her whole family. It's more than just being a fan. You were recently criticised for posting leaked nude photographs of the actress Jennifer Lawrence. She personally singled you out and you apologised and said that you'd never publish \"intimate\" photos again. What prompted your shift in conscience? Well, I look at mistakes as an opportunity to learn. I made a mistake and instead of not doing anything I decided not to post any photos of anybody like that going forward, which I haven't. In your apology you spoke in moral terms: \"I want to do what's right. I want to be better. I want to do better.\" A lot of people didn't recognise that Perez Hilton... Well, it's not anything new. I've been trying to do better and be better for four years now. I'm not perfect, I'm not trying to be, but it's a constant journey and a process. What happened in 2010 that started you on that path? There had been these gay teenagers who committed suicide, and I made a video called It Gets Better, encouraging gay teens about the future. But the response I got was very negative and it very much shook me to my core. People were saying that I was a hypocrite and a bully and a big part of the problem. So I needed to stop hiding behind this character that I created. Were you surprised people felt that way about you? Yeah, it was definitely a surprise, because sometimes you lose touch with reality. In my mind, I assumed people knew [my blog] wasn't just all negative but that's not how the world viewed it. Around this time you bumped into Jennifer Aniston, or \"Maniston\" as you call her on the site. What did she say to you? It was very random, in a car park outside a restaurant, and she was sat in the passenger seat of a car driving out. We looked at each other: I never thought I'd meet her; I always thought people would keep us apart. She was aware that, at the time, I was on what you'd call Team Jolie, and I explained to her that I viewed the people that I was talking about [on my blog] like soap opera characters. And she just reminded me: \"No, I'm a real person.\" You thought of it as a game? Yeah, I didn't really care about others that much. I'd tell myself back then: \"If people don't like what I'm writing, they shouldn't read it.\" It's a very young and foolish thing to say. I've grown up a lot in 10 years. At its peak perezhilton.com had 7 million visitors a day, but according to Alexa internet statistics, the popularity of the site is slightly down, though it's still ranked 1,324 most-visited globally. After the recent issues with Jennifer Lawrence, do you worry your hits will take a hit? No, I started blogging as a hobby and I didn't make any money doing it. So I'm not motivated by the money. For the longest time it was just about having fun, and now it's important to have fun but to not hurt others in the process. Last year, you became a father, from an anonymous egg donor and surrogate mother. Is your newfound compassion connected to that? Sure. Even in the past 12 months, I adopted a no-kids policy on my website, where I don't post paparazzi photos of celebrity children unless they are at public events or the photos are released by the parents themselves on social media. So I'm definitely more mindful. But I'm just a lot happier, there's more balance in my life, it's not just all about work. I always knew I wanted to have children and that I'd be a great parent because I feel that's one of the reasons I was born, almost. My approach to parenting is the same as my approach to life: it's all about putting in the hours and working hard. You were born Mario Armando Lavandeira Jr. Is it true that your son \u2013 Mario Armando Lavandeira III \u2013 already has his own alter ego? Yeah, I've purposely been calling my son Junior or JR because I wanted the public referring to him as such. So in the future, when he's older and aware of things, I can tell him: \"You know, people say whatever they want about your dad or about you, but it doesn't matter because those people don't even know your real name. What matters is what happens at home.\" Last year a six-second clip of a guy shouting abuse at you became popular on Vine. How do you take that? Everybody is entitled to their opinion. I can take anything so long as it's not violent. You were punched by the tour manager of the Black Eyed Peas after calling will.i.am a \"faggot\"\u2026 Thankfully I've been doing this 10 years and it's only happened one time. Who has the more vicious tabloid-style press: America or the UK? I'd say America, because at least the UK has a sense of humour about things. Who is guaranteed clickbait right now? People still love Kim Kardashian even though, and probably because, she's so polarising: the people who love her will probably click on something and the people who hate her will probably click on it too. Might we see a backlash against celebrity culture in the future? I don't think we will. People have always been interested in celebrities: the royals were the original celebrities hundreds of years ago. It's just who those celebrities are that changes. And for younger people, social media personalities are now bigger stars than traditional celebrities. The word \"celebrity\" is a lot broader than 10 years ago and it will continue to be broader in the future. And you will keep writing about them? Oh definitely. I'll always be blogging, I love it. It lets me be silly and have fun and entertain people. And just to do work that doesn't feel like work.",
  "title": "Perez Hilton: 'I needed to stop hiding behind this character that I created'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/perez-hilton",
    "media/blogging",
    "film/jennifer-lawrence",
    "lifeandstyle/kim-kardashian",
    "film/jennifer-aniston",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "The celebrity blogger tells Tim Lewis that being a father and getting called out by Jennifer Lawrence have changed him",
  "id": "media/2014/oct/26/perez-hilton-blogging-jennifer-lawrence-kim-kardashian",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}