{
  "content": "Twitter have announced they are introducing a series of changes to the way their profile pages work, to help users create 'a whole new you'. Some Twitter users have already transferred to the new format which includes tweet highlights and wide cover-images. The redesign closely resembles updates made by Facebook in 2013. Can you spot the difference between the Facebook and Twitter profiles of these prominent tweeters? New users to the site will immediately start using the new format with the following changes being introduced for current users over the coming weeks: Profile photos will be larger and a header photo, which users can customise, will stretch across the top of a profile. Popular tweets that have created the most engagement will appear larger to make them easier to find. Pinned tweets are an additional feature that will allow users to put their favourite tweets at the top of their profile so that followers 'can see what you're all about' Filtered tweets allow users to choose what they would like to view on others' profiles: tweets, tweets with photos and videos or tweets with replies People have taken to Twitter to complain that the new design is a move to look and operate more like it's competitor Facebook. What do you think about the new design? Do you have equal love or hate for Facebook and Twitter? If you use them, tell us why. Is it to 'show the world who you are'? Or is all social media the same? Share your thoughts in the comments below and we'll move a selection above the line.",
  "title": "Twitter's redesign: is it turning into Facebook?",
  "lead": "Twitter is changing its profiles so you can 'show the world who you are'. Is this a move to function more like Facebook? Do you mind?",
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2014/apr/10/twitter-facebook-redesign-difference-profile",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}