{
  "content": "I've been in a hajj hole, then I was in a synod hole but now I'm beginning to see the light. Welcome to Divine dispatches. \u2724 A pastor who said Facebook was a \"portal to infidelity\" and told married church leaders to delete their accounts or resign once testified that he had a three-way sexual relationship with his wife and a male church assistant. According to the Asbury Park Press of Neptune, Miller \u2013 who is pastor of the 1,100-member Living Word Christian Fellowship church on Route 35 \u2013 gave evidence in connection with a 2003 criminal case in which he admitted to a sexual relationship that included his wife and a church assistant. Sometimes the assistant's wife was also present. That sounds like a four-way to me. Miller \u2013 practising what he preaches \u2013 has offered to resign. Good for him, nobody likes a hypocrite. I think all clergy should steer clear of social networking for a while \u2013 it seems to be their undoing. Incidentally, here is Perez Hilton's take on the Pete Broadbent saga. \u2724 A group of Japanese monks have taken up kabaddi \u2013 the activity so beloved of bare-chested chaps on the Indian subcontinent. The English People Daily says monks are using the team contact sport as a way of keeping fit. One, Kokei Ito, tells the paper: \"I didn't see any contradiction between being a monk and playing kabaddi. Kabaddi makes my body stronger, while Buddhism guides me spiritually. Remember, they're both originated from India.\" Here is an extended example of kabaddi playing, desi style. \u2724 Porkophobia. Stop laughing. It's a serious condition that affects millions of Muslims who have turned a simple dietary requirement into an irrational hatred and fear of our four-legged porcine friends. OK, this article is a fortnight old but I was on the hajj and I was kinda busy. Altmuslim has a post from Jalees Rehman, a German Muslim scientist, who writes honestly about this phenomenon: \"I tried to laugh it off when some family friends gave us the movie Babe: Pig in the City as a present and inquired if it was a problem that the starring role was played by a pig. I have a hard time telling friends that according to the Chinese astrological calendar, I was born in the year of the pig even though the characteristics attributed to this astrological sign include fine qualities such as honesty, diligence and kindness.\" Only last week an example of transferred porkophobia was reported in the Sun with toy makers removing a plastic pig from a farm set in case it upset Jewish and Muslim parents. It's one thing not to eat pork, but to hate the creature seems a little harsh. Porkophobes are missing out on Peppa Pig and, of course, those stars from the Muppet Show. For some reason, pigs make good telly. \u2724 A Malaysian Hindu organisation is urging for a ban on the latest issue of Newsweek magazine for its depiction of Barack Obama as Shiva. The offending image has Potus as a many-armed man with the caption \"God of All Things\". \"We have received many complaints since the magazine hit news stands last Saturday,\" P Murugiah was quoted as saying by the Star. The outrage has also extended to the US. Are you sure Obama is meant to be Shiva and not this?",
  "title": "Divine dispatches: a religion roundup | Riazat Butt",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/christianity",
    "world/islam",
    "world/hinduism",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "world/religion",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Riazat Butt: Divine dispatches: Facebook faux pas by the clergy; Japanese monks playing kabaddi; porkophobia; the 'Obama as Shiva' Newsweek row",
  "id": "commentisfree/belief/2010/nov/25/divine-dispatches-facebook-clergy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}