{
  "content": "Nick Pickles, director of the Big Brother Watch pressure group, is leaving to join Twitter as UK public policy manager. Pickles, a former Tory parliamentary candidate who joined the group in September 2011, has been a highly visible figure in its campaigning. He gave evidence to both the UK and European parliaments and represented it at events in the UK, Europe and US. A music photographer, Pickles has pointed to concerns that BT is handing over customer data to spy agencies, the broadening extent of automatic numberplate recognition on British roads, and also criticised Google over changes it made in 2012 to its privacy policies. \"The past two and a half years have been an incredible experience, working with some remarkable people across the political spectrum and making major contributions to a range of debates about privacy, civil liberties, surveillance reform and freedom of speech,\" said Pickles in a statement. \"It has been a joy to celebrate our many successes with the team and our supporters and work alongside Matthew [Elliott, the group's founder], one of the best in campaigners in the business. I look forward to the many successes yet to come. At a time when the future of privacy and free speech online are high on the agenda it is very exciting to be joining Twitter.\" Emma Carr, who was deputy director, will take over as acting director while a replacement is sought. Big Brother Watch was founded in 2009 by Elliott as part of a campaign against what was then seen as growing threats of physical and virtual surveillance. Its official launch came in January 2010. Elliott said: \"Big Brother Watch's profile and reputation is formidable, commanding both media and political attention. Nick's work has been instrumental in achieving this, but also in ensuring the group is set up for the long term.\" Pickles will now become part of the BBW advisory council, whose members include Alex Deane, who was the group's first director, David Davis MP, Henry Porter, the campaigning journalist Heather Brooke, Dominic Raab MP and Lord Strasburger. The group is now seeking a new director, and says that it will begin the recruitment process formally after the European elections in May. \"With the establishment of an advisory council, financial security and a long-serving team taking forward Big Brother Watch is an enviable opportunity and I am looking forward to seeing a high calibre of CVs,\" said Elliott. \u2022 Twitter shares drop on fears of 'stalling' growth \u2022 This article was changed on 1 May. It previously incorrectly stated that Matthew Elliott was a former Tory parliamentary candidate. This has been amended.",
  "title": "Privacy campaigner Nick Pickles to become Twitter UK policy chief",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "Pickles is leaving Big Brother Watch after two and a half years to become public policy chief at Twitter's London office. By Charles Arthur",
  "id": "technology/2014/may/01/privacy-campaigner-nick-pickles-to-become-twitter-uk-policy-chief",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}