{
  "content": "Memorials, holidays, tragedies \u2013 it's these times of reflection and mourning that corporations and institutions can't seem to resist uniting around a popular hashtag and competing for the most off-tone message to share with their thousands, if not millions, of fans.  Monday's somber moment of viral exploitation? #Happy MLK Day \u2013 the federal holiday created in honor of Martin Luther King Jr, one of the most influential civil rights leaders in US history.  King was assassinated at 39, and despite the tragic nature of his death and the enduring contributions he made to the fight for racial equality, some companies seem to think a holiday dedicated to celebrating his life is a good time to promote low-calorie popcorn chips.  Here are this year's winners of the most inappropriate attempts at viral success: Almost-vice president of the United States Sarah Palin A direct quote from Sarah Palin's official, real-life Facebook page: \"Mr President, in honor of Martin Luther King Jr and all who commit to ending any racial divide, no more playing the race card.\" The good news is that as of 3pm ET on Monday, no actual politician has said anything remotely that insensitive (yet).  Snack foods How's this for poptimism? The person who came up with this tweet probably makes more money than the average school teacher.  The US marines The marine corps forces special operations command lead the cavalcade of questionable tweets with their Friday message: \"Don't be lone shooter on #MLK weekend! Make sure you've got security \u2013 stay safe! #MARSOC #Marines #shortbarrelforVBSS\" with a photo of a marine aiming a gun out a window.  A marine corps spokesperson told Think Progress that a \"staffer\" may have sent out the message and it was quickly deleted.  \"When we were alerted to the potential that this military post could be viewed as insensitive or offensive when combined with the historical facts concerning Martin Luther King Jr, we immediately took it down and apologize for any un[in]tended disrespect or misperceptions,\" Capt Barry Morris said. \"Commanders and marines everywhere are being encouraged this weekend to reflect on Dr King's work and the principles he upheld. Martin Luther King day empowers individuals, strengthens communities, bridges barriers and moves everyone closer to realizing Dr King's visions \u2013 we are proud to remember Dr King's life, sacrifices and accomplishments.\" Corporate craft goods company It's safe to assume that Theodore Roosevelt was also thinking about glue when he said: \"Speak softly and carry a big stick.\"  Corporate chemical company with a checkered past Ahead of the London 2012 Olympics, campaigners asked organizers to drop their relationship with the Dow Chemical Company because of claims linking it to the 1984 Bhopal disaster in India, which killed more than 15,000 people. The company responded by saying that it purchased the assets of Union Carbide, which owned the Bhopal plant at the time of the accident, years after the incident and is not legally or morally responsible.  Dow Chemical also manufactured Agent Orange during the Vietnam war. King spoke out against the war in an April 1967 speech.  There is at the outset a very obvious and almost facile connection between the war in Vietnam and the struggle I, and others, have been waging in America. A few years ago there was a shining moment in that struggle. It seemed as if there was a real promise of hope for the poor \u2013 both black and white \u2013 through the poverty program. There were experiments, hopes, new beginnings. Then came the build-up in Vietnam, and I watched this program broken and eviscerated, as if it were some idle political plaything of a society gone mad on war, and I knew that America would never invest the necessary funds or energies in rehabilitation of its poor so long as adventures like Vietnam continued to draw men and skills and money like some demonic destructive suction tube. So, I was increasingly compelled to see the war as an enemy of the poor and to attack it as such. Strangely specific online shopping sites Hats! Corporate pharmaceutical company",
  "title": "Without fail, Martin Luther King day provides social media flunks",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": "From Sarah Palin to a chemical company with links to Bhopal, social media was atwitter with Martin Luther King day fails",
  "id": "world/2014/jan/20/martin-luther-king-day-provided-social-media-flunks",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}