{
  "content": "Now that we've realised that social networks \"rewire your mind\" (actually, everything does - the brain's plasticity means that it's constantly refining synaptic reactivity in line with the outcomes of experiences), courtesy Professor Susan Greenfield, and a \"debate\" has begun about whether they're good or bad, we have some new heavyweights on the block. Last night's Newsnight saw Ben Goldacre, he of Bad Science, trying to make some impression on Aric \"loneliness weakens your immune system, social networking is done on your own, therefore social networking makes you ill, bet you can't spot the syllogism\" Sigman, moderated (a little) by a weary-looking Jeremy Paxman. University Challenge it wasn't. (We previously examined Sigman's article. Short version: provocative, but hazy.) Goldacre has now put up his own post on his Bad Science, with counter-evidence to Sigman's, including a link to the BBC interview (which will persist for a week or so). I sense a certain impatience in Goldacre on this topic that he hasn't shown with, say, MMR: Professor Greenfield's stated aim, however, is to improve the public's understanding of science: and yet repeatedly she appears in the media making wild headline-grabbing claims, without evidence, all the while telling us repeatedly that she is a scientist. He then points to 12 citations from PubMed from a search on \"loneliness and internet\" which, he says, don't back up Sigman. He adds: Dr Sigman claimed, on and off camera, that his was an opinion piece and so it is acceptable to quote only half the evidence. This is ricockulous, this is not how the paper was presented in the media, it is not what people were expecting, and it's not what I'd expect from any opinion piece in anything approaching a scientific journal. In fact, this way madness lies: comment is free, but facts are sacred. If you cherry pick your evidence, you can make a very good case that all swans are black. This would not represent a useful argument. And into this whirlwind comes a group that can certainly offer pretty good \"before\", \"after\" and \"not tried it at all\" control groups on the vexed topic of online social networking: Age Concern. It thinks social networking is - well, we'll let them describe it. Recent claims about the potential risks of social networking have ignored evidence that getting online has positive benefits for older people, says Age Concern. \"Our research shows that over two thirds of 'silver surfers' say using the internet has improved their lives. Whether it's using Facebook to stay in contact with friends, Skype for international calls to family abroad or using blogs to just have their say, social networking empowers previously isolated older people to stay connected and engaged,\" says Leonie Vlachos, Manager of Digital Inclusion. Age Concern regularly runs IT events throughout the UK to encourage older people to get online and learn basic computer skills. Two thirds of new IT users aged 55 plus agree the internet had a positive impact on their lives. After her husband passed, Doreen, 70, of Leeds, began to experience loneliness and feelings of social isolation. Doreen credits an IT course with Age Concern Leeds with helping her overcome this loneliness and opening up a new world of opportunity. \"Social Networking lets me stay in contact with my family abroad and also my friends locally. I've even made some new friends online! I encourage any older people who are feeling isolated or lonely to try social networking,\" says Doreen. I think that after that useful contribution, they've earnt a quick plug for their next effort, don't you? To encourage older people to find about the social and health benefits of becoming socially connected online, Age Concern is running myfriends online week beginning 16 March 2009. If you know anyone who could benefit from it - Aric Sigman's parents? - then be sure to take them along.",
  "title": "Age Concern backs social networks but Ben Goldacre's blood pressure still rising",
  "lead": "The Bad Science-buster couldn't make much impression on the \"social networking makes you ill\" guru, but perhaps he'll be encouraged by the news from older folks",
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/blog/2009/feb/25/social-networking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}