{
  "content": "There are many councils that seem unable to grasp the point of the Freedom of Information (FoI) Act. It is supposed to be about transparency and accountability, in order to enhance democracy. Yet there are often cases where FoI requests are treated grudgingly, and some even charge the seekers of information. One such local authority, the clumsily-named Cheshire West and Chester Council, has not only introduced charges but has taken its hostility to the FoI act to a new level. It has prohibited a former employee from using the act by requiring the person to sign an agreement waiving his right to make an FoI request to the council. The gagging agreement also curbs his rights under the Data Protection Act (DPA). According to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO), the agreement is invalid. (And it may breach human rights legislation too). ICO spokesman Greg Jones told the Chester Chronicle: \"The only way legislation doesn't apply is when there is an exemption. There is no way you can sign yourself out of both pieces of legislation.\" But the council seems convinced that it can make the gag stick. A council spokesman, Ian Callister , told the paper: \"I am assured by our senior solicitor that our compromise agreement with our ex-employee is entirely lawful and was agreed by that person's legal representatives. \"I am prevented from commenting further about this issue because that in itself would breach the agreement.\" The irony is that the agreement came to light because of a specific FoI request (carried in full on the WhatDoTheyKnow website) that asked the council to say how many \"current employees/ex-employees who have agreed... to forgo their right to approach the council in the future with Freedom of Information or DPA Subject Access requests.\" The answer was one. It would appear from research carried out on behalf of the WhatDoTheyKnow site that Cheshire West and Cheshire Council is the only local authority to have sought this kind of agreement. After contacting councils across Britain, 211 have said that they have never inserted an FoI/DPA gagging clause in any compromise agreement with departing employees. Cheshire West and Cheshire Council is the only local authority to have dared to insert such a clause. One of the best responses to the council's poor FoI record comes from David Higgerson: \"It appears that Cheshire West and Chester Council is the authority which likes to say: Shhhhhhh.\" Sources: Chester Chronicle/WhatDoTheyKnow/David Higgerson",
  "title": "A council that cannot come to terms with freedom of information",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "politics/freedomofinformation",
    "news/information-commissioner",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "politics/localgovernment",
    "media/local-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers"
  ],
  "lead": "Local authority prevents an ex-employee from using the FoI Act",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2011/feb/22/freedomofinformation-information-commissioner",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}