{
  "content": "The latest attempt to try and scope out the credibility of Twitter's users comes from Peer Index, which has ranked what it says are the most authoritative journalists on the service. I have to put modesty aside and say that at the Guardian, we've really done rather well. My esteemed colleague Charles Arthur, currently slaving away in the labyrynthine, sweaty, migraine-inducing techno-gadget-hell that is CES, has pipped me to the post with a 'Peerindex' of 81. I scored 79. What does that mean? What is this 'peer index' of which you speak? The scores were calculated using PeerIndex.net, which says it analyses how much each user engages with their audience, assesses what the predominant subject is and creates a 'topic thumbprint' that describes the audience for the messages they send. Follower counts aren't so important; scores are relative. \"We build our model of  authority by looking at  topics which people resonate in,\" wrote founder Azeem Azhar (formerly of this parish, and many others) on the PeerIndex blog. He launched the service last July and says it now indexes 6.6m profiles - and not just Twitter - Facebook, LinkedIn and blogs too. \"By and large [journalists] are using it extremely well in professional (and other) contexts. Some journalists have turned twitter into a key channel for getting readers and information, others are getting started. Our top 100 lists shows those who are increasingly moving Twitter into their pattern of work.\" Given that PeerIndex can't give away their secret sauce for actually working this stuff out, it seems like something Ben Goldacre might pore over for long enough to conclude that it is some kind of cod-science status ranking. So he'll be delighted to know he ranked 6, with a PeerIndex rating of 72. There is some serious weight behind PeerIndex, though. Former Economist editor-in-chief Bill Emmott is chairman, and angel investors include former Last.fmer Stefan Glaenzer, and Zoopla's Sherry Coutu and Sean Park. The money shot for PeerIndex is \"working with brands to help them understand who is authoritiative or influential in their markets,\" says Azhar. Guardian editor-in-chief Alan Rusbridger ranks joint 4th with Telegraph fashion edior Hilary Alexander, while Jack Schofield and Kevin Anderson, both former Guardian journalists, rank 8th and 3rd respectively. Here's the top ten. Browse the full list on the PeerIndex blog. And nose around your own PeerIndex rating at peerindex.net/your-twitter-name. 1 Charles Arthur 81 2 Jemima Kiss 79 3 Kevin Anderson 75 4 Alan Rusbridger 73 4 Hilary Alexander 73 6 Ben Goldacre 72 7 Krishnan Guru-Murthy 71 8 Jack Schofield 70 9 Emma Barnett 68 9 Paul Bradshaw 68 9 Roger Highfield 68 9 Sunny Hundal 68",
  "title": "Can you rank journalists by authority on Twitter? PeerIndex thinks so",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "The credibility ranking tool has announced the Twittering journalists who engage best with their users. Or so they say. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "technology/pda/2011/jan/06/twitter-peerindex-journalism",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}