{
  "content": "This is all getting quite silly. On the one hand, stumbling into yet another Newsnight crisis, BBC bosses aren't trusted by 76% of the British public (see one of those polls the BBC normally loves so much). On the other hand, an assortment of backbench Tory MPs and peers hymns the corporation's editorial freedom to investigate, in spite of statutory regulation by the Broadcasting Act. On the one hand, more MPs pile into the BBC for not showing its Newsnight exposure of Jimmy Savile. On the other, they try to kick it to death for messing up its Lord McAlpine investigation (and editorial freedom means only freedom to walk the plank). In one part of the forest, the Savile frenzy rages on, far ahead of police inquiries testing the evidence for it. In an adjacent area of north Wales woodland, David Cameron orders a future inquiry into a decade-old inquiry about abuse in a children's home. Meanwhile, the PM denounces a social media \"witch-hunt\" that spews out names of Tory grandees who had nothing to do with kids in the home; Jersey is shown to hide loads of dodgy, tax-avoiding bank accounts; and Twitter proclaims new records with 327,452 tweets per minute \u2013 per minute! \u2013 following Obama's re-election. And, in the deepest forest bunker of the lot, Sir Brian Leveson adds dots and commas. A few weeks ago, Labour and Lib Dems were both demanding the whole Leveson and nothing but the Leveson, when his inquiry findings surface this month. Now Harriet Harman and Nick Clegg want all-party talks to broker Westminster consensus on the future of press regulation. What's happening? In part, a hardening of Tory cabinet attitudes against statutory controls. In part, resentment about the way the Hacked-Off campaign seeks to dominate the debate. And, in part, anxiety about plunging into an election campaign billed as the hammers of Fleet Street. Thank heavens for Malcolm Rifkind, Lord Norman Fowler and Tory friends as they row to the rescue! All parties can join the talks, if they happen. Now: all these issues are taken straight from the headlines. Most of them could fill almost any Today show half hour as the week ended. Only connect? It's a migraine of a proposition, but also absolutely vital \u2013 because nothing makes sense until you try. Meanwhile, in New Zealand and Australia, earnest experts are trying to frame a system of media regulation that fits broadcasting, the print press, the news online and the tide of social media into a rational, flexible framework. Lord Justice Leveson wasn't asked to ponder any such thing, nor given the expertise to advise him even if he had been. His courtroom is a mountain of paper bundles, trial by tabloids. But unless anything that emerges from his findings addresses the way things are now, let alone the way they'll be in five years, the prospects for lasting reform are vestigial, going on ludicrous. Take those 327,452 tweets a minute (not to mention a parallel tsunami from Facebook and the rest). If only a tiny proportion of such twitterers wish to bandy names from the north Wales of long ago, there's nothing realistic that the police, the libel bar or service providers can do: they're blown away. Witch-hunts are a fact of life, as demonstrated not by \"the internet\", but by the millions of ordinary citizens around the globe who post on it hour by hour. Does it make sense to the corral the press by fresh statutes that prevent them reflecting \u2013 or possibly even correcting \u2013 what those millions of voters and readers are saying? Does it make remote sense to tie the poor, battered, bureaucratically bemused BBC down even further so that \u2013 see McAlpine's innocence, Jersey tax tales and much else, including MPs' expenses and phone-hacking \u2013 it is doomed to follow up newspaper stories, rather than initiate and report for itself? Is \"trust\" increased by an inability to report? Much of the build-up to Leveson has been silly, a you-in-your-small-corner game of politics and influence. There's plenty of scope for compromise on some key issues \u2013 on independent chairmen, firewalls against industry interference, editors on the commission, etc \u2013 if everyone would stop shouting for a moment. But the crucial issue here is about good journalism that takes chances to find the truth, journalism that doesn't refer hot tales up and down the corridors of decision-pondering. And, making connections, you have to wonder how some new lugubrious legal infrastructure helps that.",
  "title": "As Lord Justice Leveson ponders, the world of media is in chaos",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/lord-justice-leveson",
    "media/press-freedom",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/digital-britain",
    "media/hacked-off-campaign",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/bbc",
    "politics/politics",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/press-regulation"
  ],
  "lead": "In an exploding digital age, arguments about press regulation are simply becoming silly, says Peter Preston",
  "id": "media/2012/nov/11/leveson-inquiry-media-regulation-in-chaos",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}