{
  "content": "When you can follow Stephen Fry, Jonathan Ross and the writer Neil Gaiman day by day or even hour by hour, what's not to love? Twitter has certainly benefited from \"early adopter\" celebrities like these, because they have attracted a vast amount of free publicity. Even \"late adopter\" newspapers such as the Sun, the Daily Telegraph and the Daily Mail have joined in, writing articles about the trivia picked up from celebrity tweets. When Fry got stuck in a lift, it had more impact than a whole skyscraper burning down in China. It has also been good for the celebrities who have joined in the fun. Gaiman, for example, has been tweeting his way through a promotional tour of the US, talking about a new animated film, Coraline, based on his book. He's also just won an award for The Graveyard Book, so he's been giving interviews about that, too. It's been fascinating to follow him, without all the usual PR buffering between man and fan, and he's shared tweets with an audience that now numbers 23,205. It's unlikely he'd have got that sort of attention on Facebook. The critical issues are whether the number of celebrities is going to grow faster than the number of fans, and whether the celebrities actually participate. Fry, for example, has enough geek skills to cope with 169,069 followers, but what about 2 million or even 20 million? It's going to get to that stage soon. There could also be a backlash against celebrities who sign up but don't really participate. A Twitter stream needs to be more than pumping out PR via an RSS feed, or getting your staff to do it for you - the technique adopted by Barack Obama and Britney Spears. Celebs whose follower lists have rocketed from zero to 50,000 may one day see them tumbling down, as disillusioned fans leave them - and, perhaps, Twitter - behind.",
  "title": "Newly asked questions: Are celebrities good for the future of the Twitterverse",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "us-news/barack-obama",
    "culture/stephen-fry",
    "media/jonathan-ross",
    "books/neilgaiman"
  ],
  "lead": "When you can follow Stephen Fry, Jonathan Ross and the writer Neil Gaiman day by day or even hour by hour, what's not to love?",
  "id": "technology/2009/feb/12/twitter-celebrity",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}