{
  "content": "Whoever designed this package of buttermilk may well have had something else on their mind at the time. There's no escaping it: the design on this carton looks a lot like a penis. And it's a carton of buttermilk. We don't need to say much more. The unfortunate design hasn't gone unnoticed and attracted puns galore when it was posted on Reddit over the weekend. \"They really made a cock and balls of this branding,\" quipped redditor andyburdens, who said he found the cartons on the shelves of an Irish Tesco branch. And in case you were wondering: it's not photoshopped, though the item is only available on Tesco's Irish website. It hasn't helped that one mischievous customer appears to have added a crease to the carton on the right to make it look even more like a penis. Obviously, there have been jokes aplenty. This won't be the last time design fails cause a titter on Twitter \u2013 and this is by no means the first time: London 2012 logo Imagine designing a logo for one of the biggest sporting events London has ever hosted... only to be told it looks like Lisa Simpson giving a blow job. It was also called a \"broken swastika\" and just plain \"rubbish\" when it was unveiled in 2007. Tesco's Welsh lady ass fudge Sorry to pick on you again, Tesco, but this one's too good not to bring up again. It's an image which has circulated since late 2013 \u2013 so much so, BuzzFeed reckoned it should have gone into sharing retirement last year. Air BnB Apartment rental site Airbnb was subject to endless mocking earlier this year when they unveiled their new logo. Instead of fanfare people reacted like this: Oh dear. Here are some more as suggested in the comments: Office of Government Commerce Back story on that logo can be found here. Euro plus Scandanavia What's the biggest design fail you've ever seen? Let us know in the comments below.",
  "title": "Tesco's 'penis'-themed buttermilk and other design fails",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/tesco",
    "artanddesign/design",
    "business/supermarkets",
    "technology/reddit",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Spotted in Tesco: a carton of buttermilk with what looks a lot like a giant, orange penis on it. Have you spotted any design fails lately?",
  "id": "business/2014/oct/27/tescos-penis-themed-buttermilk-and-other-design-fails",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}