{
  "content": "Lord Justice Leveson has remained silent throughout the furore that has raged since he delivered his report on the culture, practices and ethics of the press in November 2012. Over the course of three years the report has been treated like a holy scripture with opposing interpretations. In broad terms, its supporters view it as the path to righteousness while its detractors see it as the satanic route to impiety. The supporters are most articulately represented by Hacked Off, the group formed by people who view themselves as victims of misbehaviour by newspapers. The detractors are the publishers of those newspapers, who are funding an organisation called the Free Speech Network. There is no common ground between the two. They have been engaged in a ceaseless propaganda battle for three years that shows no sign of ceasing. Leveson's report is the good book for one side and, for the other, an heretic document. Hacked Off played a key role in the formation of government policy in the aftermath of Leveson because it was involved in talks that led to the creation of a royal charter, which is designed to give official recognition to press regulation. The charter is regarded by publishers as anathema because it views its formal links to the state as inimical to press freedom. And it is also outraged by the fact that a body becoming a recognised regulator enjoys legal benefits (the relief of certain damages and costs) In a rebuff to Leveson's recommendations, the publishers therefore set up the Independent Press Standards Organisation (Ipso) on the understanding that it would not seek charter recognition. Hacked Off therefore favour an alternative regulator, Impress, which has announced its intention to seek charter recognition. Any publisher joining it will therefore be protected against the risk of exemplary damages and costs in actions for libel, breach of privacy or harassment. Without any possibility of a truce, let alone a settlement, the two sides spend a lot of time hurling verbal missiles at each other. The latest volley is the release of an \"independent report\" called Leveson's Illiberal Legacy, produced by a press freedom group known as 89Up, published by the Free Speech Network and sponsored by three publishers: DMG Media, News UK and the Telegraph Media group. According to an article in the Daily Mail, the report makes \"a devastating attack\" on the Leveson inquiry, which \"became a tool for a determined group of lobbyists [Hacked Off] to use regulation to erode press freedom.\" The report states that laws rushed through in the wake of Leveson \"pose the most substantial threat to British press freedom in the modern era\". It also poses an \"imminent danger\" to local newspapers. It calls on the government to annul the royal charter and to repeal sections of the crime and courts act. One of the report's authors, Helen Anthony, is quoted in a press release from the Free Speech Network as saying: \"From November, newspapers not signed up to a state-recognised regulator could be hit with exemplary damages in libel and privacy proceedings. \"Shortly afterwards, punitive costs awards could be made against newspapers sued for similar proceedings, even if they have broken no laws. This is deeply unfair and prevents free speech. This is bad law, and it was made in a rushed, undemocratic manner.\" A Daily Telegraph editorial on Friday weighed in with a warning that its \"landmark investigation into MPs' expenses... would have been all but impossible under the new regime.\" (Not certain about that). And the Sun ran a full-length leading article, \"Cynical attack on a free press\", most of which was devoted to support for its journalists who were prosecuted for paying public officials. But it linked these cases to the \"illiberal Leveson\" report, arguing both were attacks on press freedom. Hacked Off was never going to let this pass, of course. So it has retaliated by calling the report \"a rehash of discredited arguments advanced by an industry which continues to refuse to agree to independent and effective regulation.\" Its joint executive director, Evan Harris, said the report \"fails to provide any evidence that acceptance of the Leveson system by the press would have a negative impact on public interest journalism... \"The report contains not a single word of criticism of the newspapers who were found to have 'wreaked havoc in the lives of innocent people.'\" And so it goes... a propaganda war that probably baffles the public both sides claim to represent. Meanwhile, Ipso has been open for business for a year; Impress has yet to find a publisher willing to be regulated by it; and evidence of the press being less free today than it was prior to Leveson is, to be frank, non-existent.",
  "title": "Publishers and opponents treat the Leveson report like holy scripture",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/press-regulation",
    "media/press-freedom",
    "media/ipso",
    "law/lord-justice-leveson",
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "media/hacked-off-campaign",
    "media/impress",
    "media/telegraphmediagroup",
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/dailytelegraph",
    "media/sun",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/freedom-of-speech"
  ],
  "lead": "Newspaper owners cite 'independent' report as proof that press freedom is under threat while Hacked Off argue that it fails to provide concrete evidence",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2015/oct/16/publishers-and-opponents-treat-the-leveson-report-like-holy-scripture",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}