{
  "content": "Black Friday: Brits can't turn down a bargain Mayhem and scuffles broke-out in supermarkets on Black Friday \u2013 an American import where shops have promotional offers on the day after Thanksgiving \u2013 as it descended on the British high street. Sales were estimated at around \u00a3360,000 a minute on credit cards. Perhaps the most quintessentially British comment was from Christine Ball, 62, who wasn't impressed. \"I got here at 10.15pm and I'm further back now than when I got here,\" she said. \"None of that lot know what a queue is.\" Read article Experts call for chicken boycott as 8 out of 10 are contaminated Eight out of 10 fresh chickens bought from UK supermarkets this summer were contaminated with the potentially lethal food-poisoning bug campylobacter, and leading food expert Professor Tim Lang has called for a boycott of supermarket chicken because of \"scandalous\" levels of contamination. Asda was the worst-performing retailer, with 78% of its chickens testing positive for campylobacter, followed by Co-op (73%), and then Morrison's, Sainsbury's and Waitrose, all on 69%, with Marks &amp; Spencer showing an incidence of 67% and Tesco the best at 64%. Read article Report into Lee Rigby murder accuses Facebook of failing to flag extremist messages The Intelligence and Security Committee this week released a 200-page report into the murder of fusilier Lee Rigby in 2014. Here's what the report found: It accused internet companies of providing \"a safe haven for terrorists\" and stated that an unnamed company \u2013 which the Guardian understands is Facebook \u2013 should have done more to alert authorities to extremist messages posted by killer Michael Adebowale. Security agencies could not have prevented the murder, despite the two killers having appeared in seven separate investigations. The report identified \"errors\" by MI5. Responding to the report, the prime minister, David Cameron, said the government would commit an extra \u00a3130m over the next two years to monitor and disrupt so-called \"lone wolf\" terrorists. Read article Andrew Mitchell did use the word \"pleb\" after all Andrew Mitchell, the former Conservative cabinet minister, has lost his high court libel trial over whether he used the word pleb in an argument with a police officer at Downing Street. The long-running Plebgate saga, as it came to be known, which began in September 2012 when Mitchell, the former chief whip, got into a row with police officers in Downing Street and was accused of calling the officer a pleb. Mr Justice Mitting ruled that Mitchell did use the \"politically toxic\" word during the row. The ruling leaves him facing an estimated legal bill of \u00a31.5m and his political career in tatters. Read full report Plebgate: explainer to non-Brits Bum-breathing turtles face extinction Urgent action is required to prevent an endangered turtle in Australia that breathes through its bottom from being wiped out, a researcher has warned. The white-throated snapping turtle was recently listed as critically endangered by the federal government amid fears that loss of eggs and hatchlings is damaging the population. Read full article Ukip mistakes Westminster Cathedral for mosque Nigel Farage's local Ukip branch rebuked the BBC for holding a straw poll on the party leader in front of a mosque in London \u2013 in fact, the building was actually Westminster Cathedral. A twitter trend, #ThingsThatAreNotMosques then ensued. Read full article Instagram pros are earning millions There is a rise of Instagram professionals: users who began using the app for fun but are now earning six-figure salaries and being flown around the world to take photos to share with their many followers. One of the most sought after is New Yorker Liz Eswein, 25, who joined Instagram just after it launched in 2010. She began posting pictures of her home city under the account @NewYorkCity as a hobby. She now has more than 1.2 million followers. Read full article Scottish parliament to control over \u00a314bn worth of tax and welfare policy Holyrood is to have direct control over \u00a314bn worth of tax and welfare policy, after an historic all-party deal. The new package will allow the Scottish parliament to raise top rate income tax to 50p \u2013 a move endorsed publicly for the first time by Scotland's first minister, Nicola Sturgeon \u2013 or to cut taxes below English rates; abolish air passenger duty, undercutting airports in northern England, and abolish the bedroom tax. Read full article Mirrors could replace air conditioning Researchers have created a mirror that reflects 97% of light and also radiates heat into the cold depths of the universe, which can be used to replace air-conditioning units that keep buildings cool on Earth. This is a lot of potential energy saving: around 15% of the energy used by buildings in the US goes on air conditioning. Read full article Monty the mammoth skeleton fetches \u00a3189,000 at auction The skeleton of a rare wooly mammoth which is 30,000 to 50,000 years old, sold for \u00a3189,000 at an auction. The skeleton, named Monty, stands at 3.5 metres tall and is 5.5 metres long , suggesting it may have been a male that weighed up to six tonnes. Read full article",
  "title": "Ten things we learned this week",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/uk",
    "business/black-friday",
    "world/food-safety",
    "politics/andrew-mitchell",
    "politics/ukip",
    "technology/instagram",
    "politics/scotland"
  ],
  "lead": "From the Black Friday mayhem to bum-breathing turtles facing extinction, here is a round-up of the week's news ",
  "id": "world/2014/nov/28/ten-things-we-learned-this-week",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}