{
  "content": "Thanks for all your comments and suggestions on our last blog. The article of the week 1) Building a World Cup stadium in the Amazon As the FA can attest, building a football stadium is not a simple business. But if replacing one ground with another in Wembley is expensive and time-consuming, spare a thought for the constructors who are trying to put a World Cup stadium in middle of the Amazon. Sam Borden of the New York Times wonders which of the challenges facing the builders is the greatest: \"Some might say it is figuring out how to get oversize cranes and hundreds of tons of stainless steel and concrete into a city surrounded by a rain forest that stretches for about 2.1m square miles. Others might mention the need to put most of those materials together before the rainy season floods the entire construction site. Then, of course, there are those who might point to the need to install the special chairs.\" You would think the chairs would be the easy bit, but not when you're dealing with equatorial sunlight that melts plastic \u2013 searing heat that is matched in its ferocity by the seasonal rain, which could flood the ground. Quite simply, building a football stadium in Manaus is absurd. \"There will be a couple games there and then what? Who will go? It is an absolute waste of time and money,\" says Rom\u00e1rio. He's probably right, but at least the Arena da Amazonia won't cost \u00a31bn. Other stories we like 2) The top 50 players in Fifa 14 Who is better: Santi Cazorla, Ashley Cole, Karim Benzema, Luka Modri\u0107 or Xabi Alonso? Well, according to EA Sports, the makers of Fifa 14, they are all as good as each other. Robert Lewandowski, Iker Casillas and Juan Mata are slightly better \u2013 and Lionel Messi is the best (thanks to his scores of 96 in dribbling, 92 in pace and 89 in shooting). Poor Cristiono Ronaldo (of course), Franck Rib\u00e9ry, Falcao and Andr\u00e9s Iniesta make up the top five. Gareth Bale is 17th. Ouch. 3) An open letter to the Mayo team Before Mayo played Dublin in last Sunday's All-Ireland Football Championship, a journalist from the Mayo News wrote a stirring letter to his team. Willie McHugh, who read the letter on RT\u00c9, spoke on behalf of his county \u2013 \"the singletons, the married, the divorced, the widowers and the widowed... the dreamers and believers and the legends of the road. We're Mayo\" \u2013 urging the team to take home their first championship since 1951. In the end, Mayo lost by a point. 4) Richard Keys interview The \"novelty\" of Gary Neville and Jamie Carragher will wear off; Andy Gray remains \"the Daddy of them all\"; and Sky \"have done their money\". Richard Keys does not hold back in this interview with Jack Pitt-Brooke in the Independent. Dark forces indeed. 5) The case against high-school sports The US education system prioritises sports over numeracy. Amanda Ripley of The Atlantic has done the math and she doesn't think it adds up. 6) Alfredo Di St\u00e9fano: South America's greatest When Tim Vickery, the South America football writer for the BBC and ESPN, is asked who was better, Pel\u00e9 or Maradona, he has a novel answer: Alfredo Di St\u00e9fano. Vickery's sidestep helps him avoid any bickering between Argentina and Brazil fans, but he has a point. When Bobby Charlton watched Di Stefano dictate the play in the 1957 European Cup semi-final between Real Madrid and Manchester United, he was struck by the extent to which Di Stefano controlled the game: \"I thought: 'Who is this man?' He takes the ball from the goalkeeper; he tells the full-backs what to do; wherever he is on the field he is in a position to take the ball; you can see his influence on everything that is happening.\" Di Stefano conducted Real Madrid on the pitch, but he also helped establish the European Cup as the competition it is today. Maradona, Messi, Zidane and Ronaldo may have superseded him, but they have done so by standing on his shoulders. 7) Closing time: A Mariano Rivera retrospective This is a thing of rare beauty. Mariano Rivera has been with the Yankees since 1990 and SB Nation have honoured his longevity in style. In a piece of work that includes various writers, photographers and digital designers, Steven Goldman takes the lead. When Rivera announced his retirement, the Yankees responded by retiring his No42 jersey. Goldman's first paragraph goes some way to explaining why: \"Mariano Rivera is not just a great pitcher, he's one of those six-degrees-of-everything guys like Benjamin Franklin or Winston Churchill who touched so many bits of history in so many fields that if you somehow erased them from existence, life as we know it would cease to be. Rivera doesn't quite have the reach of a great statesman, but his impact on the Yankees ripples outward beyond the number of games he saved to encompass making and breaking the careers of others, some of whom will end up in the Hall of Fame because of their association with him. Everything is contingent upon him ... And yet, there is both more and less than meets the eye when it comes to his career.\" 8) The Twitter 100 For the last three years, Sports Illustrated have drawn up an annual list of the top 100 Twitter accounts in sport. The collection is always worth a browse, but their breakdown of the stories that produced the most tweets in the past year is more interesting. The numbers are staggering. 9) Witnessing Hillsborough and The Truth By interviewing an Ipswich Town supporter who found himself in Hillsborough for the 1989 FA Cup semi-final, Mark Cruise of These Football Times has told a story that should be heard. The Ipswich fan was offered tickets for a big game and took them, like anyone else would. He went to the stadium, took his place in the Liverpool end and witnessed some of the horror that took place that afternoon. He survived the disaster, but suffered psychologically for a number of years because of what he witnessed: \"I was on the terrace for a matter of minutes and I know people trapped for much longer than me saw things that you just don't ever talk about. Seeing, smelling and witnessing people die and thinking you are going to die \u2013 it's just not something you ever forget.\" He is now a campaigner for justice. 10) How to score \"Come here,\" says Bobby Charlton. \"That was disgraceful. This could be the last minute in the Cup final, the only chance you've got to put Manchester United into the European Cup. And if I was your team-mate I'd come and kick you up the backside for doing something as soft as that. I can't teach you anything.\" Charlton is so aghast at the striker's weak finish, he has forgotten the rules of European competitions. He's also forgotten that he's talking to what looks like a 10-year-old. Retrospective Punishment have dredged up some of the greatest old football videos and spliced them into what could be the best 12 minutes on YouTube. This week on the Guardian Sport Network 1) Ten memories from the League Cup third round in the 1980s 2) Premier League: player, team and tactical talking point of the week 3) How a story from my dad started by lifelong passion for cricket 4) County cricket: the week's final over 5) The end of another cricket season: when dreams and reality meet Debate the articles and share your own suggestions below",
  "title": "Our favourite things this week: the best sports journalism from around the web",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "sport/sport",
    "football/football",
    "football/realmadrid",
    "football/world-cup-2014",
    "sport/baseball",
    "sport/us-sport",
    "football/hillsborough-disaster",
    "football/liverpool",
    "sport/new-york-yankees",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "Featuring the 50 best players in Fifa 14, Gaelic games, building for the World Cup in Brazil, 100 top tweeters, high-school sports, Mariano Rivera and Sir Bobby Charlton chastising a child",
  "id": "sport/blog/2013/sep/27/favourite-things-week-sports-journalism-world-cup-2014",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}