{
  "content": "President Obama took to Tumblr on Tuesday to answer questions on college debt in an attempt to woo millennial voters to support his new student-loan repayment program. The Q&amp;A session centered around Obama's executive order to expand the pay-as-you-earn initiative, or Paye, that will limit student loan payments to 10% of income for nearly five million borrowers. Obama welcomed David Karp, Tumblr founder, into the White House state dining room and answered questions regarding the administration's efforts to make education accessible and affordable to all Americans. While student loans were the proposed subject, rising tuition garnered more attention. The very first question for Obama described the Paye initiative as \"an attempt to put Band Aid on a broken leg\" and asked what the administration was doing regarding these high tuitions \"so these loans will no longer be necessary\". Obama pointed to the past when the White House has convened panels of college presidents and representatives to discuss ways that colleges could keep their tuitions low. If that answer seems familiar, that's because it echoes what Obama said during a Twitter town hall in 2011. Little has changed on that front, with tuitions rising year over year. In the last 30 years, tuition at a public four-year college increased by 250%. One of the reasons for the increase in tuitions, according to Obama, is that state legislatures stopped subsidizing higher education and are instead spending the funds on \"things like prisons and other activities that I think are less productive.\" A number of questions posed to Obama focused on one thing: is college worth it? Obama replied that college education continues to be a good investment and is the surest and clearest path to advancement. He encouraged students to take the \"know before you owe\" approach to higher education, educating themselves about their financial burdens and researching the school they are likely to attend as well as their chosen profession. \"Many see college as a box to check or a place to have fun, to extend adolescence, instead of an opportunity to figure out what we are best at,\" said Obama, adding that as a result, many young people waste a lot of time at school. The president went on to say that not everyone can pursue their chosen profession out of school. \"Sometimes you have to take a detour and do something practical to pay the bills,\" he said.\"How you balance the practical with your highest aspirations will be different for each person.\" Your career isn't always a straight line. Sometimes you have to take a job to pay the bills. And sometimes you take a big risk, like building something called Tumblr. Obama diverted briefly from the student debt conversation to discuss the need for gun control reforms, as the conversation took place hours after a school shooting in Oregon left one student dead and a teacher wounded. While this was Obama's first event on Tumblr, he has previously used social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook and even Reddit to connect with young voters. The Tumblr Q&amp;A was announced on 5 June, days before the formal announcement of president's plan to cap the federal student loan payments at 10% of borrower's after-tax income. The expansion of the Pay As You Earn initiative means that five million more borrowers will be eligible to a cap their monthly payments, starting December 2015. The Tumblr Q&amp;A and more time in the spotlight might be exactly what the program needs, seeing as borrowers have been slow to sign up. Out of the previously 17.5 million eligible borrowers, only 200,000 of them have opted in to limit their monthly payments. \"We're constantly looking for new ways to reach new audiences \u2026 a lot of Tumblr users are impacted by student debt,\" Obama told Karp. According to Karp, about one third of those who applied for a college loan have a tumblr. \"I hope the Tumblr community helps spread the word [about PAYE],\" said Obama. The PAYE also allows for loan forgiveness if the loan is not paid within 20 years, a feature that could come at a cost of $52bn to the government. It does come with a cost to the borrowers as well: the forgiven portion of a loan is often treated as income and is subject to income tax by IRS.",
  "title": "Obama responds to college queries: 'Sometimes you have to take a detour'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "money/student-debt-us",
    "money/student-finance-us",
    "money/us-personal-finance",
    "technology/tumblr",
    "education/higher-education",
    "us-news/us-news"
  ],
  "lead": "President takes part in live Q&amp;A to talk about executive order on student loans, suggesting young people 'know before you owe'",
  "id": "money/2014/jun/10/obama-student-debt-executive-order-tumblr-college-questions",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}