{
  "content": "In the world of sci-fi, some genius inventor type comes up with a device which immediately disables all guns, missiles, torpedoes, everything. At the flick of a switch, the rate of violent death and injury plummets to a fraction of its former level, and the world rejoices. Of course, sci-fi being sci-fi, the inventor invariably turns out to be a supervillain, or a good guy whose power goes to his head and who turns bad in the second act. Oh, did I mention? Google (the search engine's parent company) just changed its name to Alphabet, and dropped \"don't be evil\" from its code of conduct. Which means the question facing every publisher could hardly be bigger: is Google a force for good \u2026 or is it turning into the opposite? The question is particularly germane right now because Google has just unveiled Accelerated Mobile Pages (AMP) \u2013 an attempt to bring the cleanliness and speed of mobile apps to the mobile web. AMP is a bit like that gun-jamming technology: it immediately puts an end to the ad-tech arms race which has turned the mobile web into an utter misery for hundreds of millions of consumers. AMP is based on an important insight: that almost all of that evil ad technology is written in JavaScript. If you create a new standard for mobile pages that essentially strips out all JavaScript, or at least banishes it to the bottom of the priority stack, then suddenly people will be able to read the web pages they want to read on their phones, on the go, without waiting first to be identified and tracked and sold off to the highest bidder. In the tradition of Android, Google is investing a significant sum in AMP without making it proprietary \u2013 it's an open-source standard that anybody can sign up to. But just as Android was a necessary competitive response to the iPhone, so AMP is a necessary competitive response to recent attempts by Apple and Facebook to suck all mobile content into their own apps \u2013 areas where Google has no sway. Google's natural domain is the open web; any threat to the open web is a threat to it; and therefore Google is going to do everything in its power to keep content out in the open, rather than being walled off inside third-party apps. Google's attempt to compete with Facebook's Instant Articles, and Apple's News articles, is by necessity drastic. It strips the web back to something very basic: text loads first, then images, and there is very little freedom for publishers to do anything particularly clever or interactive. But that's what readers want. Years of attempts to create immersive interactive web-based experiences on a four-inch screen have all yielded the same result: while people are happy to lose themselves in apps, they simply don't behave the same way with web pages. When you navigate to a website, you want to be able to see what's on that website speedily, without interruption. AMP, then, is pretty unambiguously good for all of us who daily navigate the web on our phones \u2013 but is it good for publishers? The answer to that won't be known for a while, and it's entirely possible the entire project will prove a damp squib with highly limited uptake, which changes essentially nothing. But assuming AMP achieves a certain level of traction, I, for one, am happy to welcome it as a Good Thing \u2013 while aware of the risk I'll end up like the hippies in Mars Attacks who believe the message of \"We Come In Peace\". Ultimately it comes down to power dynamics. Advertisers and media buyers have more power than any individual publisher: they can demand more intrusive ads, trackers, scripts, and publishers will comply, lest they lose revenue. But one entity is even more powerful than the ad industry \u2013 Google. If Google tells everybody to turn off those scripts, they will \u2013 and advertisers will be forced to compete on the basis of creative output, not technological firepower. Better yet, if simple, low-bandwidth ads load last on any page and don't intrude too much on what you're trying to read, you'll be much less likely to install an ad-blocking app. People are lazy: they don't take drastic measures like that unless on their last nerve. And by de-escalating the ad-tech arms race, Google will allow all of us to relax a little when we browse the mobile web. I, then, am willing to cede a lot of power to the seemingly benign overlords at Google. What could possibly go wrong?",
  "title": "Google AMP is good for mobile web users \u2013 but what about publishers?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "The search giant's attempt to compete with Facebook Instant Articles and Apple News is drastic \u2013 but should be welcomed",
  "id": "media/2015/oct/11/google-amp-facebook-instant-articles-apple-news",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}