{
  "content": "When Hollywood actress Gwyneth Paltrow started dishing out fashion advice and lifestyle tips directly to the public via her own website, Goop, she was generally derided. But Paltrow weathered the mockery, and now her web-based project has received the ultimate accolade: a celebrity rival. Rachel Zoe, famed stylist to the stars and proud possessor of her own reality TV show, has now launched her own lifestyle advice website, the Zoe Report. It has set the stage for an online celebrity battle for the hearts and minds of a global public. It also shows a growing trend for once-elusive Hollywood names to use the internet to interact directly with their fans, bypassing publicists and paparazzi. From Twitter to Facebook to their own websites, celebrities are starting to behave like normal people addicted to social networking and posting anything that comes to mind. Goop has followed the trajectory of any other successful internet start-up. It began life as an obscure outlet for Paltrow occasionally to blog her thoughts and suggestions on where to shop, or what to eat, or where to go on holiday. It was greeted with initial hostility, especially as Paltrow's tastes appeared far out of the reach of most people. Gossip website Gawker posted a story about Goop in which it advised Paltrow to abandon the project \"before she embarrasses herself further\". Its headline? \"Gwyneth Paltrow should get out of web publishing\". Instead, Paltrow persevered. In some ways, Goop has become a web-based version of successful celebrity magazines such as Martha Stewart's Living and Oprah Winfrey's O. Recently Paltrow confessed to People magazine that PR firms and corporations were sending her items in the hope that she would plug them in the weekly newsletter that the site sends to fans. \"Corporate America is knocking on my door,\" she told the magazine. Paltrow, it appears, has turned Goop from a joke into a potentially lucrative business venture. That certainly seems to be the motivation behind Zoe's decision to launch a rival. The stylist, who has worked with the likes of Cameron Diaz, Anne Hathaway and Keira Knightley, has become an increasingly prominent voice in the world of fashion. She has also provoked controversy over her skinny frame: critics have accused her of promoting an unhealthy body image. Zoe now aims to follow in Paltrow's footsteps and broaden her presence beyond being a celebrity stylist, instead becoming a lifestyle guru to her audience. Like Goop, the Zoe Report will offer its readers tips and advice, though it will be focused mainly on fashion and style. It comes out in a daily email, compared to Goop's weekly format. The rival websites have in common a taste for the high-end prices that other people might feel are a little out of reach. In some of her first tips, Zoe suggested readers snap up a \"capelet\" costing $2,400, or splash out on a pair of sunglasses that cost more than $500. The Zoe Report has also dished out suggestions for buying the right shoes and choosing luxury jewellery and makeup. The online battle has already set some internet hearts fluttering. \"Is there room in your life for two missives from famous people who really want you to go shopping?\" asked New York Magazine, in a feature comparing and contrasting the two websites. According to Zoe and Paltrow \u2013 and an army of publicists praying for free plugs \u2013 there is. Head to head ON MAKEUP Zoe: \"I recently sampled the opalescent lacquer and fell hard.\" Paltrow: \"First thing is to find acceptance when you look in the mirror.\" LIFESTYLE Zoe: insists readers buy The Sartorialist, a book full of top fashion photographs. Paltrow: asked guru friends, including a Zen master and an Episcopalian priest, to weigh in on the problems of addiction. ON CLOTHES Zoe: \"Rip her to shreds\" collection \"offers a wide range of exquisitely shredded tunics, tanks and dresses\". Paltrow: \"The little black dress, never fails.\"",
  "title": "Gwyneth Paltrow's a hit on net as Goop style tips go viral",
  "lead": "Star's celebrity lifestyle site defies its critics to become a must-read for the Twitter generation",
  "tags": [
    "world/world",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "film/gwynethpaltrow",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "world/2009/aug/16/gwyneth-paltrow-lifestyle-goop-rival",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}