{
  "content": "Years ago, I gave up my lovely job as a Guardian political correspondent because I had two small children and a husband who appeared incapable of scaling back his 14-hour day. I felt very strongly one parent had to be at home most tea times, so I quit. I took revenge, of sorts, by writing about it. If my world was to be narrowed to a house in a London suburb, so would my journalism. Fortunately, even I cannot now remember what the column was called and it only lasted a matter of months, as long as it took me to realise that I was turning into a parasite on the lives of my children, happily too young to notice at the time, and of my friends who, once they cottoned on, were furious. In truth, it always felt like exploitation. As my anger slowly faded, and the resentment was replaced by plans that accommodated tea with the kids, I became more and more uncomfortable. I might be mad at my husband, but making fun of him in the name of some spurious journalistic integrity, I grasped, wasn't going to help. To my shame, I didn't abandon the column immediately. I feared I was being unprofessional, oversensitive \u2013 like complaining about the sea being cold. I'll get used to it, I thought, as I framed my younger daughter's rage at the discovery that there was no tooth fairy into a witty little paragraph. The crunch came when I described what I thought was a brilliant dressing-up idea spotted at the school gate involving, I think, a pair of knickers (brand new, of course, and innocently white) worn as a kind of balaclava helmet. The mother in question thought I was having a laugh at her expense. Her chill attack was like waking up after a heavy night. How could I have been so casual, I wondered as I considered her irritation, with real people's privacy \u2013 people going about their normal lives, getting up, throwing together a fancy dress outfit, with no notion that they were going to be spied on, harvested by me for my personal gain? Sure, it's what writers do \u2013 but novelists, with a time lag and a context. Maybe, only I and they knew who my characters were, but that was not the point. Even anonymously, I was stealing their lives. It would have been more decent to steal their car. I had slipped without stopping to contemplate the consequences down the easy path described by Toby Mundy in this month's Prospect, from the enlightenment state into the republic of entertainment. Yet now, I find myself, just as the storm breaks around the decision of Julie Myerson to write openly, as well as pseudonymously, about her family, as Jade Goody dies as she lived, on camera, and Max Mosely demands privacy, thinking again about returning, as a writer, to the subject of my family. When I described life with the kids, they were cute and charming accessories. If I mention them now, it would be because their experiences inform my understanding of a matter of wider public concern \u2013 the impact of exams on school life, or the terror of university entrance. And only anonymously. Now, though, I want to write about my mother, about old age and altered realities. I tell myself there is a distinction between writing about my children, turning them into material for my career, and trying to make sense of what is happening to a person to whom the world is becoming something alien. It is, of course, a con. My mother is as vulnerable as my children, but because she is a less fetching accessory, I have persuaded myself she has a legitimacy, as my subject, which my kids do not. She hasn't. Old age cries out for individual exploration and understanding. But when I do it, she won't know. And nor will her friends and family.",
  "title": "Anne Perkins: The Myerson affair highlights writers' duty to respect the privacy of their subjects",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/family",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/press-freedom",
    "books/julie-myerson",
    "books/books",
    "world/ethics",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Anne Perkins: The Myerson imbroglio has highlighted writers' duty to respect their subjects' privacy. I'm not sure I have always got it right",
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/mar/12/family-privacy-myerson",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}