{
  "content": "According to many, there's a very important sporting event taking place in London this year. Yup, that's right, the first annual Finsbury Park Spring Tag Rugby Competition!!!!!!* What, that's already happened? Oh for goodness sake. Either way, in its honour, we've sprinkled hundreds of tips from our London city guide across Foursquare, the location-based social networking app that has grown exponentially since its launch three years ago. The app encourages its users to \"check in\" to places they visit - bars, hotels, restaurants, parks, anything really - in order to record their movements, interact with friends, find new places, become the \"mayor\" of venues, and um, collect points. Some of you are wincing. We know. You might find the \"gamification\" element, and the \"I just became the Mayor of Sainsburys!\" thing a little bit cringey. But stay with us... For travellers, and for anyone looking to discover new places, Foursquare's \"tips\" function is excellent. Before picking a restaurant, users can scan the tips left there by previous eaters, recommending dishes on the menu or which specials to look out for. Club tips might tell you which particular night to visit, and when to steer clear. You can also \"explore\" the area around you for popular places - if you are reading this in a major conurbation anywhere in the world, there will be dozens of tips hovering in the venues around you. If you follow the Guardian on Foursquare, each time you check in to a venue we recommend, our tip will pop up on your screen (see above). Same goes for if you check in to somewhere near a place we like (also above). This could be one of our favourite London pubs... or a scenic walk, or a dusty old antiques shop, or a sneaky art gallery tucked down an old alley, or any of the hundreds of tips we've collected while making the London city guide. From each tip, you'll be able to click through to the full Guardian review, without leaving the app (not above, but that looks like this). We've also made a handful of lists, collating themed clusters of tips, such as a huge selection of Guardian &amp; Observer restaurant reviews, great value food around the London Olympic venues (The Olympic Stadium, ExCel, Greenwich, and Wembley), the best street eats in the capital, the best music venues, pubs, galleries... and lots more. We hope it comes in handy, and do let us know what you think. ----- * No offence to Finsbury Park. I happen to live there and love it. Tag Rugby, however, I'm indifferent to.",
  "title": "London city tips on Foursquare",
  "lead": "We've added hundreds of our insider tips and restaurant reviews across the capital to location-based social network Foursquare",
  "tags": [
    "travel/london",
    "travel/travel",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/foursquare",
    "sport/olympics-2012",
    "travel/england",
    "sport/olympic-games"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "travel/2012/apr/27/foursquare-london-city-tips-olympics",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}