{
  "content": "Yesterday's announcement that Twitter is cutting SMS support outside the US, Canada and India had the Twitterati up in arms. Co-founder Biz Stone explained that Twitter had been trying to strike a deal with mobile operators to keep the service going but basically can't afford to do it: \"Even with a limit of 250 messages received per week, it could cost Twitter about $1,000 per user, per year to send SMS outside of Canada, India, or the US...\" bemoaned Stone. Photo by sittered on Flickr. Some rights reserved. For the non-Twitterers among you, you can send and receive messages from twitter on the Twitter site, through a whole bunch of third-party desktop applications like Twitterrific and Twhirl or - and this was the special part - through SMS on your mobile. There are applications for the iPhone and for other mobiles, but these are passive rather than a text message alert. Twitterers can still send outgoing messages from their phones, but lose incoming messages. Cue, then, the campaign on Twitter; changing picture icons to a pic that demands the UK operators come up with a solution, as well as a meme of Twitter bombing Biz Stone saying 'boo'! More interestingly, there's a raft of startups and rival sites taking advantage of the situation to plug their own services. Twitter themselves suggested using a mobile-specific application like slandr, Cellity or Twitterberry. \u2022 TweetSMS wasted no time; they will launch soon offering incoming Twitter SMS for a fee, apparently set up because they knew this scenario was coming. No details yet on the exact costs; the site just says \"a small fee at a fraction of the cost of a text message\". \u2022 Zygo Tweet also have a registration site live and plan to launch in a month. Users will buy a bunch of credits to receive direct messages and replies, and those will be between 4-5p. It will work internationally and is run by a team of ex-Orange engineers. Twitter is incredibly powerful, and I don't doubt that I'd pay for the whole service. But paying to receive messages could be very problematic; it could lead people to cut down the number of people they follow, restrict the number of messages and communication they have - in short, it will change the dynamic of it. Are you worth paying to receive texts from? Twitter is said to be seeing more growth in the UK than anywhere, and won't want to damage that. Users will hope that might encourage operators to seize the opportunity to offer a solution or a deal with Twitter. Now's their chance.",
  "title": "Would you pay for Tweets?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/blogging",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/media",
    "media/charging-for-content",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Yesterday's announcement that  is cutting SMS support outside the US, Canada and India had the Twitterati up in arms. Co-founder Biz Stone explained that Twitter had been trying to strike a deal with mobile operators to keep the service going but basically can't afford to do it: \"Even with a limit of 250 messages received per week, it could cost Twitter about $1,000 per user, per year to send SMS outside of Canada, India, or the US...\" bemoaned Stone.",
  "id": "media/pda/2008/aug/15/wouldyoupayfortweets",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}