{
  "content": "Phillip Hughes has been reprimanded by Australia's team management after revealing prematurely that he had been dropped for the third Test at Edgbaston. Teams are not obliged to reveal their line-ups before the toss, but a message appeared on Hughes's Twitter page this morning stating he had been dropped. \"Disappointed not to be on the field with the lads today,\" read the message. \"Will be supporting the guys, it's a BIG test match 4 us. Thanks 4 all the support.\" Hughes's agent, Neil D'Costa, attempted to take the blame for the mistake, claiming that he was responsible for posting the player's tweets, but Cricket Australia's Philip Pope suggested Hughes would still be held accountable. \"As a young player he will be reminded that he should not be revealing details until the team has been officially announced,\" said Pope. Earlier D'Costa, who is in India, had blamed the premature tweet on his own miscalculation of the time difference. \"I look after the Twitter for Phillip and we were certainly under the impression [the timing was OK] because of the time change,\" D'Costa told Sky Sports News. \"I'm in India and I was dealing with all the stuff through Australia. Unfortunately I am probably the fool in this situation. \"How our situation works is we get the Twitter from Phillip and I feed them into our IT guy. I don't think anything there was that much of a secret. The team were looking to make some changes to suit the conditions so I don't think there was anything that was too big a surprise. \"I spoke to Cricket Australia, they are very supportive of what players do on and off the field. They know this was an innocent situation.\" Hughes scored just 36, 4 and 17 in the opening two Test matches but seemed to have rediscovered some of his form when he made 10 and 68 at Northampton in the warm-up game before the Birmingham Test. His place in this Test was taken by the Queensland all-rounder Shane Watson. Hughes and Mitchell Johnson were the two most exciting players in the Australia side that won in South Africa in the winter to retain their No1 status in Tests. And when Hughes maintained his brilliant form in the county championship, where he averaged 143 for Middlesex, he looked unstoppable. But he was unsettled by the bounce and pace of Steve Harmison in a warm-up game against the England Lions and his confidence has not recovered, leaving Australia to rue the decision to go on tour without a back-up opening batsman. Cricket Australia were keen to draw a line under the situation. \"The information on Twitter was clearly a mishap, I have spoken to the guy who put it up,\" another spokesman, Peter Young, said. \"He was very apologetic and agreed to take it down. Phil Hughes was not aware it had gone up on his behalf. We encourage players to engage with the public and use those channels but within the process and not before selectors have officially published the team.\"",
  "title": "Such Tweet sorrow as axed Australia opener Phillip Hughes finds himself in hot water",
  "lead": "Phillip Hughes has been reprimanded after revealing prematurely that he had been dropped on his Twitter page",
  "tags": [
    "sport/ashes",
    "technology/twitter",
    "sport/australia-cricket-team",
    "sport/cricket",
    "sport/sport",
    "sport/ashes-2009"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "sport/2009/jul/30/phillip-hughes-twitter-australia-ashes",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}