{
  "content": "Yesterday, the official Home Office Twitter account topped its recent behaviour by broadcasting to the world a running total of how many immigration offenders they had arrested. Sorry, that should be suspected immigration offenders \u2013 a fact the Home Office seemed to forget some of the time. Whatever your views on immigration, you will concede that being arrested must be a humiliating and terrifying experience. The last thing you would want, during such a low point, is for the state to be live-tweeting photographs of your misery, especially in such a distasteful and triumphalist manner. All that is missing is the giant foam hand with \"another one bites the dust\" printed on it. The first thing to note is that these are people merely suspected of an offence. Innocent until proven guilty is certainly a principle that the government hugs very tightly when it comes to the likes of Andy Coulson, Rebecca Brooks and Liam Fox. When it comes to poor, brownish people, not so much. Will the Home Office, in a couple of days, give us a running total of how many of the \"139 suspected #immigrationoffenders arrested in raids across the UK today\" were erroneously arrested? Will they use the hashtag #oopswemuckedup? Will they apologise to the \"suspected visa overstayer\", whose badly pixellated and easily identifiable photograph they published to the world, if it turns out he was merely part of their huge backlog of applications? The second thing to note is that, looking at the account's timeline over the past 24 hours, one would be justified in thinking that the Home Office's sole preoccupation was the UK Border Agency and that the agency's single duty was the arrest of suspected immigration offenders. Only it isn't. And I cannot help thinking that this sort of maniacal focus says as much about the things the Home Office does not want us to notice, as the things they do. How about tweeting an update of waiting times at Heathrow; some statistics on rape convictions, or the number of newly recruited police officers from ethnic minorities? Is there an exception to Godwin's law? If not, there should be. When the state begins to flex its muscle in this way, promote racial tensions and dehumanise the people it is meant to protect \u2013 who were approached on the basis of what, looking a bit foreign? \u2013 because they are suspected of a crime, the parallels are not only inevitable, they become essential. When the state begins to advertise the deprivation of liberty from people who may not even have committed an offence with hashtags, all that is missing is the word \"#Juden\" to complete the poster. Because, as Rafael Behr so astutely observed recently, when immigration minister Mark Harper's rhetoric, in justifying this deplorable campaign, strays in the same breath on to immigration in general putting \"pressure on our infrastructure\", the distinction between legal and illegal immigrant is lost. And these tweets, these hashtags, these photographs simply feed into a general distrust of \"otherness\" and schadenfreude at its treatment. Never mind that spot checks based on racial profiling may, in fact, be illegal and are certainly objectionable. Never mind that it is highly questionable whether such a campaign might infringe the civil service's code. Never mind the terrifying state of affairs in which part of the quest for illegal immigrants has been contracted out to the private sector. Never mind compromising the impartiality of the civil service and using official Twitter accounts as a forerunner to one party's election campaign. Even ignoring all that, how can we ignore the fact that the man being paraded in that vile photograph \u2013 for paraded he is, so that some can throw the electronic equivalent of rotten vegetables at him \u2013 could be any one of us? There is no way to restrict his liberties, that doesn't also restrict ours. There is no way to dehumanise him that doesn't also cheapen our humanity. The state has a choice; at all times and in all policy areas. It has a choice of positivity versus negativity. This choice certainly extends to an official departmental account. Instead of advertising hapless nail technicians being led away in handcuffs, you can tell us what action you are taking to reduce the backlog of immigration and asylum applications. Instead of broadcasting, you can engage. Instead of encouraging at best distrust and at worst xenophobia, at a time when soldiers are decapitated in the street and mosques are being blown up, you can encourage understanding and community. You have a choice. To foster the best in people or fuel the worst in them. So far, you have chosen the latter.",
  "title": "Tweeting arrests of 'illegal immigrants' is a new low for the Home Office | Alex Andreou",
  "lead": "Alex Andreou: Using #immigrationoffenders hashtag to show suspects being arrested on the basis of racial profiling is wrong on so many counts",
  "tags": [
    "uk/immigration",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/aug/02/immigration-offenders-home-office-tweeting",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}