{
  "content": "@AidWorkerJesus A wonderful parody account exploring the divide between the saviour of mankind and the white saviour complex. Aid Worker Jesus' hashtag challenges, such as #aidcarols and other gems, are greatly anticipated by his loyal disciples and well worth checking out. He's currently on R&amp;R, which gives you plenty of time to catch up. @7piliers UN aid worker Brendan McDonald shares anything and everything you need to know about the sector, from the refugee crisis and the SDGs, to the upcoming World Humanitarian Summit and aid worker wellbeing. Follow for the latest humanitarian news. Friends of the Weather Rachel Skeates-Millar \u2013 the photographer behind Friends of the Weather \u2013 is a humanitarian from New Zealand, currently living and working in Nepal. Follow for beautiful and positive posts about her work in stunning settings. @DeganAli Degan Ali, Somali executive director of Kenyan NGO Adeso, is a woman on a mission to help transform the humanitarian system. In a recent interview with the Guardian she argued it was time that local NGOs demanded more power. Follow for candid tweets on social justice and the double standards in the aid industry. @JemilahMahmood Jemilah Mahmood is a Malaysian doctor and humanitarian activist currently in the role of under secretary general for partnerships at the International Federation of the Red Cross. Previously she was chief of World Humanitarian Summit secretariat. Follow for tweets on the latest policy news in the humanitarian sector. @EvilGeniusPubs This is the account to follow for snappy comments on the latest news in the humanitarian sector. EvilGeniusPubs tweets on everything from accountability in the aid system to Bono (the latest being: Dear Bono: You need to stick with *Africa.* Angelina's got the Middle East... Humanitarian coordination, bro.). If you are looking for humanitarian blog sites, they also blog frequently under the pseudonym 'J'. Follow for: well informed and often amusing opinion. Humanitarian Hypocrisies Based in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), the anonymous Humanitarian Hypocrisies explores the \"internal struggles of being a part of a dependency-enforcing, neocolonial aid-system\". Follow for brutal honesty. @yarnellmark Mark Yarnell, senior advocate at Refugees International, has worked from Somalia, Kenya, South Sudan, Central African Republic and Greece, but is currently based on DRC. Follow Mark for insights into the insecurity and humanitarian crises in the region. Melissa Fleming Melissa Fleming, the chief of communications and spokesperson at UNHCR, has almost 20,000 following her profile on Facebook. If you are looking for a place with regular updates on the refugee crisis, then this is for you. @intldogooder Jennifer Lentfer, the voice behind the How Matters twitter account has worked with over 300 grassroots organisations over the past decade and worked in Zimbabwe, Malawi, Namibia. She also runs the How Matters blog with regular posts on communications and good practice in the industry. Follow for constructive comment on what is going wrong in aid and what needs to change. This list is just a starter. Which humanitarians keep you entertained and informed on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram? Tell us in the comments below. Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.",
  "title": "10 of the best humanitarians to follow on social media",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "global-development-professionals-network/global-development-professionals-network",
    "global-development-professionals-network/humanitarianshumanitarians",
    "global-development-professionals-network/people-in-development-global-development-professionals-network",
    "global-development/humanitarian-response",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/instagram"
  ],
  "lead": "Want to see what aid workers are saying - sometimes rather candidly - about the sector? Here are the humanitarians to follow on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook",
  "id": "global-development-professionals-network/2016/apr/18/10-of-the-best-humanitarians-to-follow-on-social-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}