{
  "content": "My award for bravest attendee at last month's Convention on Modern Liberty goes to David Varney. As the prime minister's special adviser on \"service transformation\" \u2013 official-speak for joining up the data that government agencies hold on us \u2013 he's one of the architects of the \"database state\". It's fair to say that, of the 1,500 people in the hall for the opening plenary session, 1,499 vehemently opposed the idea. Turning such an audience around would have defied Disraeli. Unsurprisingly, Varney failed. However it's worth looking at what he said if we're to understand where the debate should go from here. Varney said that he is no champion of \"a single great state database\". Literally speaking, this is consistent with his 2006 report Service transformation, and wider government policy. Although a software company did promote the idea of a single government database in the 1990s, the UK government never took it up. What Varney does favour, though, is public bodies sharing a single set of data about every individual citizen. This would be name, national insurance number, date of birth and address, he told the convention. As it happens, I'm sympathetic to the idea \u2013 it's hard to see how we can enable individuals to opt in or out of information systems, or to view their own files, without knowing who they are \u2013 but to describe the outcome in functional terms as anything but a \"single great state database\" is sophistry. So, too, is Varney's main argument, which is that government may be a data-gobbler but, by golly, private business is much worse. (He won a heartfelt cheer by quoting from a particularly intrusive sign-up form, with weasely small-print opt-out clause, produced by ... Guardian News &amp; Media.) \"It would be mad if we imposed constraints on the public sector but allowed the private sector to go on as before,\" he said. Quite. But the answer here is so obvious that it's not worth spelling out. Suffice to say that anyone who equates a supermarket loyalty card with a mandatory government information system cannot be interested in a serious debate. And debate, Varney said, is what he wants: \"There needs to be a big public discussion on what information it is right to share.\" I agree. The opportunity to launch such a debate is coming up: later this spring, the government will publish a national identity strategy, setting out what ID data public agencies will share about us. The document should be debated, scrutinised line by line, and if it's not good enough, or not specific enough, thrown back until we get it right.",
  "title": "Michael Cross: Defending the 'database state'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/data-protection",
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "politics/idcards"
  ],
  "lead": "Michael Cross: It's worth looking at the arguments of David Varney if we're to understand where the debate should go from here",
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2009/mar/11/database-state-modern-liberty",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}