{
  "content": "The vast majority of us like to consider ourselves decent people. We pay our taxes, hold doors open for others, stay out of trouble, that kind of thing. I certainly thought of myself this way, a 26-year-old man trying to forge a career and get on with life. So when I was arrested on 13 January at work by four police officers, it came as a bit of a shock. The reason for the arrest was a tweet I had posted on the social network Twitter, which was deemed to constitute a bomb threat against Robin Hood airport in Doncaster: \"Crap! Robin Hood airport is closed. You've got a week and a bit to get your shit together otherwise I'm blowing the airport sky high!\" You may say, and I certainly realise now, it was ill-advised. But it was clearly frustration, caused by heavy snowfall grounding flights and potentially scuppering my own flight a week later. Like having a bad day at work and stating that you could murder your boss, I didn't even think about whether it would be taken seriously. Call me naive or ignorant, but the heightened state of panic over terror issues was not something I considered as relating to me in any way \u2013 until I was arrested, shoved into a police car in front of colleagues, hauled off to Doncaster police station, and interviewed for the rest of the day. My iPhone, laptop and desktop hard drive were confiscated during a search of my house. It was terrifying and humiliating. I never expected to be charged, but a month later I was: not under the offence of making a bomb threat, for which I was originally arrested, but under the communications act for the offence of sending a menacing message. This first appeared to be an absolute offence, much the same as speeding: conviction does not depend on mens rea. For a stupid mistake, I was faced with the prospect of a career-ruining criminal conviction. After fresh legal advice it turned out I could argue I had no intention and awareness to commit the crime, and I could plead not guilty. Even after all the preceding absurdity and near-breakdown-inducing stress, I was confident common sense would prevail in my day in court. Unfortunately,yesterday I was found guilty and ordered to pay \u00a31,000 in fines and legal costs, which I have to find along with my own legal costs of another \u00a31,000. I am considering an appeal, though I have no means, having left my job due to the circumstances. The bright side has been an outpouring of support on Twitter, unexpected and overwhelming, with many users \u2013 including Stephen Fry and Jonathan Ross \u2013 offering to cover or donate towards my costs via a fund set up by a third party. Writers Sali Hughes, Emma Kennedy and Graham Linehan were among more than a thousand others who sent messages after my verdict was announced. Right now I'm unsure whether to accept their help, but I am truly warmed by the offers. Whatever happens now, I remain terrified. Terrified of speaking my mind, terrified that my life has potentially been ruined. Most of the authorities could see it for what it was, and yet I find myself with a conviction because the Crown Prosecution Service decided it was in the public interest to prosecute. It would appear we live in such a hyper-sensitive world that we cannot engage in hyperbole, however misguided, without having civil liberties trampled on by, at best, heavy-handed police. I would have fully accepted the police coming to my house to question me; it would have taken all of five minutes to realise what had happened. I would have learned my lesson and no taxpayer money would have been wasted on a frivolous prosecution. I have had some very dark days, and my family has been put through the wringer, because I made one silly joke. twitter.com/pauljchambers",
  "title": "My tweet was silly, but the police reaction was absurd | Paul Chambers",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/terrorism",
    "uk/police",
    "uk/uksecurity",
    "technology/technology",
    "law/twitter-joke-trial"
  ],
  "lead": "Paul Chambers: For one joke on Twitter I've had my civil liberties trampled on, and have now got a criminal record",
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2010/may/11/tweet-joke-criminal-record-airport",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}