{
  "content": "Call it a Clay Shirky moment. He, you'll recall, is the author of Here Comes Everybody, the book about how we can come together from the disorganised chaos of the net to produce effective groups to get things done. One example is the revolt over the proposals by Phorm, the would-be targeted advertising company, to get BT, Virgin Media and Talk Talk to turn their customers over to them. The questions, and the information, kept coming. Talk Talk announced that use would be opt-in, not opt-out. There is more to come; but that hasn't stopped Phorm from hiring not one, not two, but three organisations to do its PR. Yet when one of the people at the three ISPs asked me what I thought Phorm should do to fight all the negative PR out there, the answer seemed simple enough: make all the plans available online so everyone can pick over them. (A version of the presentation to BT is already at The Register.) If there's no invasion of privacy, it'll be clear enough. Next up is Apple. Yes, the company that likes to say ... nothing, though as we've already seen, that actually has the effect of making people more interested (Why Apple's secretive approach is so effective, February 21). But sometimes, saying nothing isn't enough. Take the case of the cracking MacBooks, a cosmetic problem that has affected an indeterminate number of Apple's low-end laptops. Occasionally the casing - usually, though not always, on the lower right-hand side - develops a crack in which small strips at the edge separate or even break off. Often this happens after the 12-month warranty has expired. An obvious question: what's under the lower right-hand side? After all, that might hold some part of the explanation, mightn't it? I sent Apple's PR a set of questions - was the cracking a known problem? And what's down there? Apple's response? \"If a customer experiences an issue with their MacBook they should contact AppleCare.\" (This applies apparently whether or not you've paid for the aftercare service.) But it doesn't explain what might be the cause of the problem. I asked again for clarification; there was no reply by press time. But never fear: on the net, someone has the information you want. Search for \"MacBook disassembly\" and you alight on ifixit.com's guide to taking to pieces pretty much anything Apple-y. Choose how to (say) repair the right-hand speaker, and it shows you how to remove the top of the system. And there it is: underneath the front right-hand side of the keyboard is the hard drive. We might guess that the hard drive, since it spins a lot, warms up the plastic at the front of the casing and, through thermal cycling (warming up when the drive is spinning, cooling down when it sleeps, warming up when it spins again) starts to show cracks. See, that wasn't so hard, was it? What these two examples show so starkly, though, is how difficult it is to run formal organisations nowadays. The internet has democratised criticism - particularly the informed variety. You may not know what the structures under Apple's MacBook or Phorm's server-sniffing are, but we can find people who take structures apart, others who know about plastics deformation, others who know about IP networks. As Shirky pointed out, ground-up organisation is easy now; it's only finding the levers to pull that's tricky. It's relatively easy with businesses, though, because annoying (would be) customers is not a good way to stay in profit. In Phorm's case, it might even make it hard to stay in business. It's a high price for not being open - but that's the price the internet exacts nowadays.",
  "title": "Charles Arthur: Come out, Phorm and Apple, we're here to criticise you",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/telecoms",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/phorm",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/clay-shirky",
    "technology/cookies-and-web-tracking"
  ],
  "lead": "Charles Arthur:  As Clay Shirky pointed out, ground-up organisation is easy now; it's only finding the levers to pull that's tricky",
  "id": "technology/2008/apr/03/privacy.apple",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}