{
  "content": "Suddenly, in the way of the world, two buses come along at the same time. Destination: the future of journalism. One (encompassing newspapers, magazines and the net) is driven by the wonderful Emily Bell, once business editor in this parish and now in charge of the digital Tow centre at Columbia University, New York. The other finds James Harding, BBC head of news, steering his corporate double-decker down a parallel track. Both, though, wind up at more or less the same terminal \u2013 using more or less the same terminology. Forget \"media\" and other horrid words. Journalism \u2013 that is, reliable reporting and analysis of facts and trends based on ever-widening means of newsgathering (via smartphone, Twitter et al) \u2013 is at the core of everything: including Lord Reith's ancient mission to educate, inform and entertain. But there are many twists and turns along the road. Factor in, perhaps, the complete or partial death of print publishing. Factor in, more distantly, the decline and fall of television as a dominant medium. See how mass communication can become much more personalised once algorithms make the basic choices, geared to maximum clicks. You can then, with Professor Bell, delivering the Hugh Cudlipp memorial lecture last week, exalt the wunderkinds of news on the net, the BuzzFeeds, the Vices, the Gawkers and Politicos, the HuffPosts. You must also, every waking moment, note how social media \u2013 especially Facebook and YouTube, at least for the moment \u2013 have taken over as massive platforms for news in words and in viral pictures. You can also, with James Harding and his ambitious, two-stage Future of News report, begin to glimpse how the digital tsunami of information \u2013 some of it going global in an instant, some of it leaving gaping holes in the coverage local communities require to help them navigate life \u2013 needs a trusted friend to guide the way. But none of this can, for a second, be definitive. Bell is right to stress how tablets, phones and the rest are phenomenons that come along every few years and revolutionise thinking \u2013 until the next phenomenon. (See, last week, Apple's iPhones cresting a remarkable profits wave, with Apple iPads left on the beach). James Harding and his team are right to underline both how fast and how slowly the media world turns. One moment the audience bounds forward, embracing a new mobile existence; the next moment it staggers back, moaning to Director General Hall about cheesy plotlines on The Archers. Newspapers have seemed to be dying a digital death for 10 or more years. But I'd bet that, if we come back to this precise future of news in a decade or two's time, there'll still be a Daily Mail (and more besides) consuming dead forests of print. And I'd certainly bet that television and radio will still be huge entertainment and information resources \u2013 because they, too, have already proved the visionaries of doom way out of time. Of course none of this rules out rolling revolutions in news sources, coverage, provision. Of course, in BBC terms, the format of bulletins and, indeed, the whole existence of 24-hour news channels must be in flux. But notional timescales for change are off the wall \u2013 and probably redundant anyway because technology will be asking fresh questions way before any supposed end date. There is, though, one joint question for both Bell and Harding to address: that age-old problem of cash in the bank, of profits, of revenue. How is this new world to be financed? Who pays the piper? Bell, when prompted, does frankly say that traditional answers don't work any longer. No more cover-price-plus-advertising-take as the motor of profit or loss. Her money will come from a variety of different sources in different circumstances: from ads, from subscriptions, from charitable foundations, from diversified operations, from supporters' clubs and e-commerce, from rich men who like to own editors more than they like to own footballers. Well, that looks about right. But none of it squarely addresses the basic provision of news. Today's great success stories \u2013 say BuzzFeed or Vice \u2013 are intrinsically zippy internet magazines that scoop up clicks by adding entertainment or brilliant feature coverage to attract a young audience. But they depend on the basic news of the day \u2013 the underpinning of their activities \u2013 arriving by some different route. Their venture capital value (and Vice has nearly $600m in investment serving 300 million unique visitors) is founded on not doing everything and so not needing the staffing to attempt to do everything. But load on more bodies \u2013 rather as Mail Online has done in its relentless pursuit of uniques worldwide \u2013 and profitability becomes a red glow over the horizon. So where will we find the basics of life, the court reports, the council and parliamentary details, the births, the deaths, the sport and arts? Any traditional newspaper mission to inform can't be met by Google and its fellow aggregators if there's nothing left to aggregate. Which apparently dumps more responsibility still in Harding's BBC lap as the two theses come together. His first report envisages spreading reporting around the globe, using World Service resources in a dynamic way. It also aspires to help struggling local communities in Britain by moving in. But hang on, yet again \u2026 Where's the money coming from? And thus the dear old licence fee jumps to attention again. The revenue stream of first and last resort delivers the wide world and the street where you live. The desire to be on top of every digital development is manifest. Think British Broadband Corporation. But wonder how, in an utterly changed environment, any of this can command the money needed to support it \u2013 or the quiescence of other newsgatherers in print or online who have to make a living, too. Heaven bless good, incisive journalism \u2013 and Bell and Harding for thinking challenging thoughts. The future of news is all around us, developing day by day. Apple and Facebook, as we've seen these last few days, can make monster profits. But content, news content? Beware the wide open spaces of a hi-tech wonderland where the sun never sets \u2013 and the bill never arrives. The future of news is the future of money.",
  "title": "Follow the money and you'll find the future of news",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/bbc",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/emilybell",
    "media/jamesharding",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/television"
  ],
  "lead": "Peter Preston: Emily Bell and James Harding are thinking challenging thoughts about the media. But the bottom line is still the bottom line",
  "id": "media/2015/feb/01/follow-money-find-future-of-news",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}