{
  "content": "That breakfast radio continues to have an audience is weird to me, but there are apparently still plenty of caller-number-threes out there waiting to win some cold hard caaaash. When e-philandering site Ashley Madison's user database was leaked by hackers it was only a matter of time until FM radio thought it'd be funny to out a user live on air. That's exactly what happened on Thursday on Nova radio, when hosts Fitzy and Wippa searched the name of a female caller's husband on the site, found him, and smeared themselves in glory. \"I don't know if we should have done that,\" said Wippa after the caller hung up. \"That hasn't left me with a good feeling. What a horrible situation to be in.\" Like the DJs that went before them and swindled info about a royal birth out of a maternity hospital nurse, nobody stopped to think what sort of a place the victim might be in and how they might react to the shame. At the very best there's an awkward convo going on in Blacktown over the weekend. At its worst, FM radio can be very grim indeed. I'm over it. As a bit of a nerd I'd like us to think about what we could do with the radio if we got rid of Mornings with Richo, Sharlene and Gonk. FM broadcasting happens on part of a bigger radio \"spectrum\" which is valuable stuff. As it is, bits of the FM spectrum outside what we use to broadcast smooth classic hits is used for things like monitoring babies for seizures, aircraft tracking, and checking scientific instruments \u2013 all sorts of things infinitely more useful than shaming cheats. In the bit of spectrum on the radio dial currently occupied by prank calls, we could broadcast and monitor signals from anklets on critically endangered species like the northern hairy-nosed wombat. Young kids could get into ham radio like their ancestors did, with heaps of spectrum at their disposal to broadcast their thoughts and feelings on. Replacing Kyle, Karl and the Friday Fuckwit with teenagers enjoying a hobby would immeasurably lift the tone of what's broadcast on air and put an end to worries about what they're up to on the internet (you could listen in from the car). Speaking of the internet, I wonder what sort of NBN we could have if we supplemented fibre with the 87.5 to 108.0Mhz range. Imagine telling our grandkids that we built the best internet in the world using infrastructure we formerly used to play commuters a short, weird sound, before inviting them to ring in and guess what it was, for a chance to win two tickets to the Easter Show. They'd never believe us. Emergency warning systems, more accurate weather reporting, smart homes \u2013 we could have it all using that spectrum. Or we could continue to use it for lame pranks, awkward moments and a 20 minute paid spot about how a diet of lemon soup made the hosts of Power Hour with Kev, Jules and The Animal tune up their winter bodies for the beach. Let's do it, let's reclaim the FM band. Any use case would be better than what we're doing with it now.",
  "title": "The FM spectrum is too precious to waste on Fitzy and Wippa  | Geordie Guy",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "culture/radio",
    "lifeandstyle/marriage",
    "technology/hacking",
    "tv-and-radio/tv-and-radio",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Nova FM's hosts outed an Ashley Madison user, leading this nerd to ask, once again: is there anything more useful we could do with radio waves?",
  "id": "commentisfree/2015/aug/20/the-fm-spectrum-is-too-precious-to-waste-on-fitzy-and-wippa",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}