{
  "content": "Eleven days ago a newspaper serving a small community in the US state of New Hampshire ceased publication after 90 years. The Citizen, a paid-for title based in Laconia, had been hit by rising production costs. Its publisher tried to sell it, but there were no takers. Its closure wasn't too much of a surprise given that Laconia had been the lone city north of Boston served by two local daily papers. So people will still be able to enjoy the freely distributed Laconia Daily Sun. But the passing of The Citizen prompted Charlie Arlinghaus, a columnist with the New Hampshire Union Leader, to \"take a hard look at the myths surrounding newspapers, news and civic engagement.\" Although his short piece does not rank as a unique hymn to the joys of newsprint, and will surely be read by digital enthusiasts as a counter-revolutionary polemic, it raises questions about the future of journalism that we ignore at our peril. \"No one gets their news from Twitter\", wrote Arlinghaus, \"even the people who think they do.\" He continued: One of the most persistent and annoying myths about news gathering and reporting comes from the guy waving his cellphone at you and saying, 'I don't read newspapers. I get all my news from Twitter'. In reality what he means is that someone he follows on Twitter or other social media posts links to stories that he clicks on. But the ultimate reporting was not done by my friend with his own blog reacting to news, or by the guy posting the link or by the social media company. Someone read the document or produced the report \u2014 gathered the news \u2014 that we repost or tweet or link to. Arlinghaus went on to record a little history about the growth in the numbers of newspaper-based news-gatherers in those former times when print profited from its advertising revenue. He also showed how local radio relied on local papers for its output: About 20 years ago, I was a guest on a local radio talk programme in a New Hampshire city. Waiting for the programme to start, I realised I was sitting where the news broadcaster had sat earlier. He didn't leave a script behind because he didn't use a script. Instead, the front page of the local daily sat in front of me with two or three sentences from each of four or five stories highlighted. I sat there at the top of the hour listening to them replay a tape of his initial broadcast and followed in the highlighted paper word for word \u2014 not that he credited any of the reporters or the paper itself. People listening didn't get their news from the radio. Ultimately, they got their news from the newspaper reporters. In Arlinghaus's view, without the newspaper's reporters \"none of the local stories would have been covered, printed or rebroadcast. No one would have tweeted the story.\" No-one would have had a story to post on Facebook. And then comes his major substantive point: Much is made of the decline of newspapers as if we worry about the paper and ink industries. The real worry is news-gathering, and not just in the industry publishing these words. Think about local radio news. It was not long ago that many local radio stations in New Hampshire had news-gathering operations... even the small stations might have two reporters who didn't just read stories out of the newspaper or off the Associated Press wire, but went out and committed journalism on their own. Today, by contrast, radio news staffs have been run down in company with newspaper newsrooms. The decreasing number of reporters \"impoverishes us all\", writes Arlinghaus. He concludes: \"More people covering more things makes government more accountable... The Citizen closing down is not the sound of an old method giving way to a new one. It is a warning about fewer people watching, fewer citizens helping keep us free.\" I agree with Arlinghaus, as I've written several times on this blog. Social media reacts to news, it doesn't find it. And the fall in the numbers of news-gatherers is a genuine concern for our democracies. In effect, he is agreeing with my view: \"I'm with you on the digital revolution, it's the lack of journalism I can't face.\"",
  "title": "I'm with you on the digital revolution, it's the lack of journalism I can't face",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/downturn",
    "media/us-press-publishing",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/blogging",
    "media/digital-media",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "us-news/new-hampshire"
  ],
  "lead": "As yet another newspaper title is withdrawn from publication, a US columnist worries over the implications of a reduction in the number of news-gatherers ",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2016/oct/11/im-with-you-on-the-digital-revolution-its-the-lack-of-journalism-i-cant-face",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}