{
  "content": "The Scotland Yard officer who decided against reopening the phone-hacking investigation in 2009 was a \"good friend\" of the former deputy editor of the News of the World, the Leveson inquiry has heard. John Yates, the former Metropolitan police assistant commissioner, defended his decision not to reopen the inquiry in 2009 after the Guardian had published new revelations about the extent of phone hacking at the News of the World. In a three-hour grilling at the inquiry on Thursday via live satellite link from Bahrain, where Yates is advising the police force, he also revealed that he did not know former deputy prime minister John Prescott's phone had been hacked until the \"end of 2010\". This was four years after investigating officers came across Prescott's name and private numbers in the notes of Glenn Mulcaire, the private investigator hired by the News of the World to hack phones. Yates was repeatedly questioned about his relationship with News International executives but dismissed suggestions that he was too \"cosy\" with News of the World journalists or senior executives at the organisation. \"I absolutely know and I guarantee that none of that played any part in my decision-making. My conscience is completely clear on that,\" he said. The inquiry heard how Yates dined with Neil Wallis, the former News of the World deputy editor, on numerous occasions at top London restaurants including the Ivy Club, a haunt of showbusiness and TV stars. He insisted all the dinners, some of which were with Nick Candy, the London property developer, were private and they were more likely to have discussed football than police matters. Other restaurants where he dined with Wallis included Marco Pierre White's Luciano and Bar Boulud at the Mandarin Oriental hotel in Knightsbridge, next to Candy's flagship development One Hyde Square. He denied his close relationship with Wallis led to the former News of the World deputy editor winning a two-day-a-week PR consultancy job with the Met between October 2009 and September 2010. However, he said with hindsight he might have handled things differently. At this point Lord Justice Leveson asked: \"Is there is a difference between a professional meeting with the media and a relationship with somebody which might be perceived to impact on your professional judgment in circumstances you should be careful to avoid?\" Yates said he agreed and that he had to cut off contact with \"a good friend\" \u2013 a reference to Wallis \u2013 because of the circumstances. He insisted his controversial statement in 2009 that there was no fresh evidence to warrant a new investigation was based on the Met's knowledge at the time. He told the inquiry he had asked for evidence that Prescott's phone had been hacked \"scores\" of times but was not given documentary proof until late 2010. Prescott, who tweeted throughout Yates's Leveson appearance, said he \"only discovered I was targeted by NOTW after contacting Met's Legal Services Directorate - more than 5 months after repeatedly asking Yates\". Yates told Leveson it was \"deeply regrettable\" that he did not know about Prescott or that the deputy prime minister had not been informed that his phone security had been compromised. \"I cannot tell you the amount of times I checked and sought further and better particulars about the possibility that Mr Prescott's phone had been interfered with,\" he said. Yates also admitted that he might have drunk champagne with the former News of the World crime editor Lucy Panton, whom he saw perhaps three times a year. The inquiry was read an email from the former NoW news editor James Mellor to Panton requesting she call in the champagne favours. The email said: \"Think John Yates could be crucial here, have you spoken to him, really need an exclusive splash line, time to call in all those bottles of champagne.\" Yates says it related to the weekend of 29/30 October 2010, when there had been a printer cartridge bomb found on a DHL flight. Robert Jay QC, counsel to the inquiry, said the email suggested that Panton had \"plied\" Yates with champagne and the favour was to be returned. Yates replied: \"I hadn't been plied with champagne by Lucy Panton, and I think it's an unfortunate emphasis you're putting on it.\" He added: \"It [the email] would indicate even by October 2010 that those perceived favours had never been called in, and I hadn't provided them with anything before, and that's the position. \"Yes, it's a phrase, and I think it's slightly unfair that it's put to me in that way.\" The inquiry later heard that Andy Hayman, the former Met assistant commissioner who had overall responsibility for the original 2006 News of the World phone-hacking investigation, had also drunk champagne with a journalist from the paper. At a meeting in the Oriel restaurant Hayman spent \u00a347 on a bottle for someone he recalls was from the paper and was possibly a female, although he could not recall their name. \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Leveson inquiry: John Yates wined and dined with former NoW deputy editor",
  "lead": "Officer who decided against reopening investigation in 2009 says he was 'good friend' of News of the World's Neil Wallis. By Lisa O'Carroll",
  "tags": [
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2012/mar/01/leveson-inquiry-john-yates",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}