{
  "content": "MCV reports that Microsoft have announced the release date of Windows Live, the big brother to the Xbox's Live service. From May, PC owners will be able to link up their home console profiles to their desktop or laptop computers, thus extending the potential reach of their social networks beyond the big white box underneath the TV. Non-Xbox owners will also be able to create a profile which will keep track of PC gaming achievements (just in time for the release of Half Life Vista), and will allow access to the downloadable content on Xbox Live. The community will thus expand into a global love-in of gaming. It won't be long before the boundaries become even more permeable and we'll have gamer scores for amount of time spent crunching numbers in Excel and best obtuse question posted to the Microsoft Office Helper. Cross-platform convergence is the future. Meta-identities (whether you choose to partake or not) will become pervasive across media platforms; soon we'll be able to link our MySpace profiles with our Twitter accounts with our Gamerpoints and our WoW levels (that's you Crys). The downside is, of course, that potential employers and other interested parties will be able to see where we stand in the MotoGP 06 league tables as well as how we fare as photographers, which links we like and what music we listen to. But this move by Microsoft makes enormous amounts of sense in a console race reliant upon extending its market beyond the traditional demographic. This is the biggest limitation of the PS3's Home. The networks which will be created in its beautifully-rendered environments will be, like Second Life's, situated within its boundaries. Maybe gamers like that, but the media centre capabilities which the PS3 is promoting (internet browser, camera and mic, MP3 player connectivity, movie and music downloads) are also aimed at non-gamers. They may develop PS3 avatars in Home, but what's the point if they can't integrate with other environments? I really like what Sony are doing, please don't get me wrong. Their moves towards user-generated integration, social networking and multi-media are well-researched and will be well-implemented. But by keeping the walls around their digital garden high and impenetrable, they're creating gaps which other console manufacturers, like Microsoft, are already trying to fill.",
  "title": "Bridging the gap",
  "lead": "Cross-platform convergence is the future, which is why I'm more excited about Windows Live than I am about the PlayStation3's Home.",
  "tags": [
    "technology/microsoft",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/sony",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "business/business",
    "technology/games",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/gamesblog/2007/mar/16/bridgingthega",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}