{
  "content": "Knowledge of self, and of the world around us is one of the key informants of consumption behaviour. As we come to appreciate how our behaviour and the behaviour of the brands we choose affects us and others, the healthy and ethical course of action becomes the only sensible - as opposed to merely socially acceptable or habitual - choice. Digital tools are increasing our knowledge of ourselves and the world, and thereby helping to realise the possibility of truly conscious consumption. Self-knowledge, achieved through apps and internet-enabled devices that monitor our behaviour may well expose the gulf between our actual and ideal consumption behaviour and its implications. For example, If I eat my favourite chocolate bar three times a week, it means I'm having 12 a month, or 144 a year. The nutritional impact of this choice factored against every other dietary and fitness choice I make, will be made more visible in a more connected world. With global installations of sports and fitness mobile apps expected to rise 63% from 2012 to 2017, many more of us will be sharing this data. A food brand could help me make the calculations, which might even mean encouraging me to eat fewer bars in exchange for greater loyalty. But without visibility into the brand's own behaviour I only have incomplete knowledge and am capable of only half-conscious consumption. If that chocolate brand I like is very popular, there's a chance hundreds of millions of people around the world are eating the same product. That means thousands of tonnes of cocoa, sugar and packaging are being used, thousands of people are employed, and whole local economies might depend on that little bar. Multiply that over a lifetime, and you realise the company behind the humble bar could have an impact on global commodity prices, pension funds, and the future of our planet. Consumers are interested in becoming fully conscious of the circumstances in which their purchases are made, as our report Made In outlines. They use resources such as Good Guide and there is no doubt that companies are making an effort to become more transparent about their practices in response. Internet initiatives such as Historic Futures and proprietary schemes such as Johnson &amp; Johnson's Earthwards campaign share information on the origins of products. But these are still fundamentally about brands controlling information release - even Good Guide uses companies' CSR reporting. As consumers get more organised, brands must be prepared for a future where information is more radically democratised and disseminated. April 24 sees the launch of Fashion Revolution Day which: \"aims to build connections throughout the fashion supply chain, linking the cotton farmer, the dyer and the seamstress with the consumer,\" using social media in a savvy way. Another initiative, Wikichains, is seeking funding to act as a platform to crowdsource information from people worldwide on companies' supply chains. \"Conscious brands\" must provide us with choices that meet our wants and increasingly better informed needs. Those brands in the vanguard will help us achieve the lives we know we need to live, taking the big data information we share with them to collaborate with us in achieving that goal. They will also take the initiative and share more about their own practices to prove that their stated purpose is matched by reality. The most self-confident brands may even be complicit in de-fetishising the commodity, by recognising the advantages (including the ability to charge a premium) of adopting the kind of radical transparency that connects consumers with real producers, rather than risking involuntary exposure. As consumers, thanks to the internet, there may never have been a better time to ask ourselves what we consume, which brands we choose and what personal and aggregate impact those choices might have. In fact, the knowledge is becoming almost inescapable. If you are happy, great, no one can accuse you of being ill-informed. If not, make new choices. Increasing numbers will do so, and there will be brands waiting to do a better job of attending to the wants and longer term needs of conscious consumers. Tom Adams, global head of strategy at FutureBrand",
  "title": "Brands must embrace the future of fully conscious consumption",
  "lead": "Consumers are sharing and consuming more data than ever before, and they'll expect 'conscious brands' to do the same",
  "tags": [
    "sustainable-business/sustainable-business",
    "guardian-professional/sustainability",
    "media/media",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/big-data",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "sustainable-business/brands-data-conscious-consumption",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}