{
  "content": "This year British consumers are predicted to buy goods and services on credit worth \u00a3323.3bn, according to Euromonitor. And based on Eurostat figures, this makes the UK population one of the most indebted in Europe. With low interest rates, returning consumer confidence and a growing population, gross lending by credit is expected to increase by 4% over the next four years. The most fundamental change in the industry right now is the increasing willingness of consumers to apply for credit online, opening up a new universe of possibilities for lenders to determine your suitability and affordability. There is a balance to be struck between asking for sufficient information to be confident about a lending decision and asking for so much that it slows down the check-out process, says Hanna Aqvilin, spokeswoman for Invoice House which lets online retailers offer their consumers the facility to split up any payments interest-free following a quick credit check. To speed up the application process Invoice House uses machine learning and artificial intelligence to reduce continuously the number of direct questions asked, and instead increases the amount of information that can be inferred from soft information the user provides indirectly and voluntarily, such as public social media data. Didier Baclin is the Chief Data Scientist at Zopa.com, the UK's largest peer-to-peer lending company, which has facilitated loans worth \u00a3600m since 2010. They have only had to write off 0.25% of all the money funded, which suggests they have a very good model for deciding people's ability to borrow and repay loans. Baclin explains: \"We use up a large number of variables, a mix of questions and insight collected via big data, to determine borrowers' suitability and, more importantly, their ability and intention to repay the loan.\" The three fundamental game changers that have paved the way for this over the last 10 years are; 1) the relative low cost of developing computer programs to capture data; 2) the very low cost of storing data; and 3) the fact that consumers today spend so much time on digital channels, leaving their digital footprint everywhere, meaning there simply is more data to analyse and use in drawing statistically correct conclusions. At the London-based financial technologies accelerator run by Startupbootcamp we find Maciej Doli\u0144ski, the CEO and founder of a Polish start-up called Friendly Score who has just relocated his business to the UK. Friendly Score's entire business model is based on using social media data to create a scorecard, which it offers lenders as a supplement to their existing credit checks. Things that determine your score may include anything from the general sentiment of what you post on your wall to where you are regularly checking in cross-referenced to the location you're asking goods to be delivered to. Doli\u0144ski comments: \"As it's all public information the user voluntarily makes available online, and Friendly Credit explicitly ask for permission to use, I see no ethical concerns around using this data.\" As the traditional credit score is based on historical credit behaviour, it has limited ability to predict someone's future behaviour. If banks can predict the future intentions of borrowers, their risk assessments will be more accurate. Therefore financial institutions are investing heavily in their capability to capture and analyse this new type of data. According to a new report from Accenture, investments in the financial technologies sector, including online lenders, have more than trebled globally, from $928m (\u00a3560m) in 2008 to $2.97bn in 2013, and over the past three years this investment has risen at more than four times the rate of overall venture capital investment. London is becoming an international leader in the field. The UK and Ireland now account for more than half of all investments in Europe, and the annualised growth rate of this sector in the region was 51%, nearly twice the global average and more than twice that of Silicon Valley (23%). For obvious reasons \u2013 and not least because they want to avoid having consumers trying to game the system \u2013 none of the companies I spoke to could reveal the exact details of their process, but in his article Big Data at the Bank John Ginovsky sums it up: \"The crucial thing for most banks is not so much the sophistication of their model or the quality of their data, obviously that's fundamental, it's their ability to operationalise around that, to do something different.\" Christer Holloman is the chairman of First Tuesday and author of The Social Media MBA series. You can follow him on Twitter @holloman. To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled 'Advertisement feature'. Find out more here.",
  "title": "Your Facebook updates now determine your credit score",
  "lead": "Challenger banks look at public social media presence to determine credit scores, but is it a reliable indicator \u2013 or ethical?",
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/banking",
    "business/financial-sector",
    "business/business",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media-network/media-network-blog/2014/aug/28/social-media-facebook-credit-score-banks",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}