{
  "content": "The former home secretary David Blunkett has called for the government to consider a system of non-statutory regulation of the press. Blunkett becomes one of the most senior Labour figures to urge David Cameron to take a cautious approach in responding to the report by Lord Justice Leveson next Thursday. In remarks which suggest the response to the Leveson inquiry will not follow party lines, Blunkett told BBC radio: \"I think we all want a complete transformation of what currently is the Press Complaints Commission so that it actually does have teeth, so it can provide redress. \"I would like it not just to mediate but to be able to make a judgment where the particular publication won't play ball and I'd like proper compensation. \"I think we've got a long way to go on the back of next week's announcement in persuading the media, the print media, to go along with something much tougher than is on the table. And if we get that, we don't need statutory underpinning or requirements. And if we don't, we're in a different ball game. \"I don't think we should be in two camps. There is a terrible problem at the moment with some of the print media having a go at people who don't agree with them and there's a similar problem on the other side if you're not in favour of statutory regulation, you're somehow a patsy of the media. Well, I'm neither.\" The Labour MP, who has had his private life exposed by tabloid newspapers, said: \"I've suffered myself but that doesn't mean retrospectively going over history I should want to change.\" In the interview to be broadcast on Saturday, he was asked if statutory regulation undermined free expression. \"We've got to use all the powers at our disposal, not look immediately at legislation to do it,\" he said. Blunkett has written a column for the Sun, owned by Rupert Murdoch's News International, but has also been subject of fierce investigations by NI papers. It is understood that Downing Street is being pressed to consider an option whereby newspapers will be given up to nine months to agree to join a tougher form of independent regulation and, if they fail to co-operate, possibly being made subject to statutory regulation by a body such as the media regulator Ofcom. Meanwhile, the father of a victim of the 7/7 bombings claimed on Friday night that the inquiry has been hijacked by a \"celebrity circus\" and has lost its value and focus. Graham Foulkes, who was informed by police last year that his phones were targeted by an investigator working for the News of the World, also had strong words for politicians who he said had used the inquiry as an opportunity to \"get hold of the media and shape it in a way that suits them\". While he was initially hopeful about the inquiry, he told BBC Newsnight: \"We had months where it wasn't about the inquiry: it was about celebrities and what celebrities may or may not have done, so the whole inquiry completely lost its focus and lost its value.\" Foulkes, whose son David was killed in the attack at Edgware Road tube station said: \"I feel quite upset that an important piece of work for ordinary people, for ordinary members of the public, was railroaded by the celebrity circus.\" The Hacked Off campaign, which is calling for new legislation for a press watchdog and includes the actor Hugh Grant among its activists, has rejected the suggestion that evidence to the inquiry was dominated by celebrities. \u2022 This article was amended on 27 November 2012 to remove an incorrect statement that David Blunkett had been forced to resign as work and pensions secretary over an alleged incomplete disclosure of interests. In fact he declared all his investments according to the rules. The cabinet secretary ruled: \"In terms of the handling of your interests, and those of your family, you followed correct procedure in notifying your permanent secretary of your interests.\"",
  "title": "David Blunkett backs non-statutory press regulation",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "media/media",
    "politics/davidblunkett",
    "politics/politics",
    "politics/labour",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pcc",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/press-regulation",
    "media/leveson-report"
  ],
  "lead": "Former Labour home secretary urges cautious response to report by Lord Justice Leveson",
  "id": "media/2012/nov/24/david-blunkett-non-statutory-press-regulation",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}