{
  "content": "It is clear we are about to see far too much political power exercised by the US internet companies (Snooper's charter will have limited shelf life, warns industry, 8 January). Before the Home Office and then parliament accepts the level of influence from the likes of Google, Facebook, Twitter, Yahoo and Microsoft, as indicated in the criticism they level at the draft bill before a joint committee of both houses, we need a few homes truths on the table. The first is to spell out that not one of these companies could have started up business anywhere other than a western liberal democracy founded on the rule of law. Yes, that means that these companies that preach globalism would not have been able to start business in (say) Russia, where company lawyers get beaten to death; or China, where they just disappear. The second is that the system that allowed them to start up and operate is under threat. That they do not respect this shows in the way they have operated in some parts of the globe. The third is that they have, or think they have, much influence in the countries which gave them birth in the quest for profits in those parts of the globe the rule of law does not reach. I do not see why customers (interest declared) should buy their line. They clearly want no-go areas for law enforcement. Well, they should not be appeased. Jeff Rooker House of Lords; member Rusi independent surveillance review, July 2015 \u2022 After Paris, the fainthearts are calling for the snooper's charter. Spying on everybody dilutes our intelligence and allows criminals and terrorists to sneak through in the crowd. The answer is targeted surveillance, not blanket snooping. The French tried blanket snooping and look where it got them. Barry Tighe London \u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Face-off with Google, Facebook and Twitter over snooper's charter | Letter",
  "lead": " Not one of these companies could have started up business anywhere other than a western liberal democracy founded on the rule of law",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/yahoo",
    "technology/microsoft",
    "world/france",
    "world/surveillance",
    "world/world",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2016/jan/10/face-off-with-google-facebook-and-twitter-over-snoopers-charter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}