{
  "content": "Relevance is shaping up as one of the trends to watch in 2010. The internet has changed the economics of content. In the past, printing presses were expensive. The equipment to shoot and edit video was very expensive. Digital technology has cut the costs of production, and the internet has cut the cost of distribution. People, especially digital media professionals, are now seeing a market in tools that help filter through the digital torrent to deliver relevant content. Mahendra Palsule, an editor at the technology news aggregator TechMeme, has written an excellent blogpost looking at the issue of relevance and highlighting some of the emerging companies and services working to deliver relevant content based on attention or your social networks. As it is based on your social networks, the relevance of the content will only be as relevant as your social networks are to your interests. If you want content relevant to a digital media professional, your schoolmates on Facebook may not work in digital media and so may not be sharing content relevant to your professional interests. That's not to rubbish your friends, but only to say that to get the most out of these services, you may have to do some careful pruning of those hundreds of people you follow on Twitter or Facebook or set up a professional account. Some services, such as Cadmus, can provide relevance filters based on Twitter lists, which is an alternative to setting up a separate account. My Twitter follower list is full of friends but also technology experts, journalists and digital media professionals, and it's been a good way for me to find relevant content. Twitter Times is an easy way to see a page of filtered headlines from the people you follow on Twitter. There is a lot of gold, well at least for me, in that page, but then again that's the point. FeedTrace takes a slightly different tack, looking at the popularity of links on Twitter and then comparing those to links that you have tweeted. It's a nice sidebar tool rather than a page like Twitter Times. You can easily restrict the link filter to a single site if you're looking for the most popular links on one. Many of these services simply use your Twitter or Facebook log-in so you don't have to remember another username and password. As Palsule points out, there are a lot of startups in this space. Many of them are focused on Facebook and Twitter, which raises the question of whether networks that many people use for personal social contacts will deliver the best relevance for digital media professionals. However, I think some of these companies will start to differentiate themselves from what already feels like a crowded field.",
  "title": "Tools of the trade: relevance",
  "lead": "How do you make the most of online contacts? By filtering them for relevance. By Kevin Anderson",
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2010/apr/12/relevance-twitter-tools-trade",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}