{
  "content": "Recently we at Tenovus, a Welsh cancer charity, used Snapchat, a photo messaging app with a controlled list of recipients, to generate media coverage for Volunteers' Week. It all began because the news website WalesOnline started to use Snapchat to share news and gather content from readers. We teamed up with WalesOnline and asked our supporters to take a #selflessie \u2013 a selfie of them doing something selfless \u2013 and send it to us on social media and WalesOnline via Snapchat. It got us thinking \u2013 how can we and other charities use Snapchat in the future? Learn from previous examples Increasingly we're seeing brands head over to Snapchat: McDonald's, Nando's, Taco Bell and fashion shows around the world have got on board, as well as some news outlets. Look around and follow their examples and techniques. Is your local, regional or national online news site heading over to Snapchat? Perhaps the way they cover bulletins could inspire a fundraising bulletin. Be creative Think about how Snapchat can complement your current communication methods to volunteers, donors, fundraisers or supporters. If you are using text messages to send out a message on the day of an event, maybe your fundraiser would like to see a \"good luck\" picture before they set off on their challenge. Do make exclusive content You need to make content that your audience want to see. Use Snapchat for forthcoming campaign teasers and give your audience exclusive content. Planning a big event? Share something from behind the scenes, or even give your fundraisers on Snapchat an early bird price to your next event. Think about the benefits Yes, it's another platform for you to be monitoring, but do the pros outweigh the cons? If brands and news groups are heading over to Snapchat, are there benefits your organisation can get from it, too? Snapchat gives you the potential to get news, views and campaign information right into your supporter's hand, on a platform they are using daily. Don't expect the world to be on Snapchat It's probably fair to say that Snapchat is not going to be the main channel of communication you have with your online community. There is currently very little information about its demographics, so don't neglect the channels you're already using. Don't forget your great ideas If you're sitting on an idea that you're not sure how to get out there, don't forget about it. Think about how it might work alongside a different platform like Snapchat; it might just give it a new angle. Don't ignore it With reportedly more than 30 million users worldwide and over 400m photos being shared every day, there's a community out there for you. What do you know already about your online community and are they likely to be using Snapchat? Keep your eyes and ears open, because if that is where your supporters are talking, surely you want to be involved in the conversation. Will Barker is a public relations and digital officer at Tenovus The fundraising hub is funded by BT Mydonate. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here For more news, opinions and ideas about the voluntary sector, join our community - it's free!",
  "title": "How charities can use Snapchat",
  "lead": "Will Barker shares his top tips on how charities can make the most out of new social media platforms like Snapchat",
  "tags": [
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network-blog",
    "voluntary-sector-network/fundraising",
    "voluntary-sector-network/impact-and-effectiveness",
    "voluntary-sector-network/how-to-guides-for-small-charities",
    "society/charities",
    "society/voluntarysector",
    "society/society",
    "technology/snapchat",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "voluntary-sector-network/2014/jul/03/charities-how-to-use-snapchat",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}