{
  "content": "The first part of Windows Live Wave 4 got its first showing in Sao Paulo, Brazil, today when Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer met students at the Universidad de Sao Paulo. The new version of Windows Live Messenger is not yet available in beta form, but is expected to be the first of a series new Live programs. Live Wave 4 programs require Windows 7 or Vista. They will not run on Windows XP. There will also be mobile versions of Live Messenger for Windows Phone 7, Apple iPhone, RIM BlackBerry and Nokia, but not Windows Mobile. The new Windows Live Messenger has social networking features, and to begin with, taps into data from Facebook, MySpace nd LinkedIn. Other services will be added later. Microsoft won't say which ones are planned, but Twitter is a likely suspect. The connection works both ways. If you comment on a Facebook item in Messenger, for example, the comment is posted to Facebook. Interoperability with Facebook chat is still being developed. Messenger's features include tabbed conversations, high-definition video chat, the integration of Bing search results, and the ability to distinguish best friends (as favourites) from ordinary friends. Items from your favourite people are separated out at the top. The tabbed conversations feature means you can chat with several people at once without having several different Messenger windows open. David Law* from the Live team in Microsoft UK said the aim was to make Messenger \"the best way to share photos and videos online.\" It won't replace other services, such as Facebook and Flickr, but \"it will bring together things that you wouldn't immediately check.\" It will also enable people to post synchronised status updates and keep up with friends without having to access too many services separately. Windows Live Messenger dominates the instant messaging market in the UK: Law says 93% of messaging minutes are in Windows Messenger. However, many people now communicate via other services, including Skype, Facebook, and Twitter. * Corrected, with apologies...",
  "title": "Steve Ballmer previews a new Windows Messenger as the first of the next wave",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/windows",
    "technology/windows-7",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Microsoft is updating its Windows Live suite, and Steve Ballmer has given a preview of Live Messenger as the first example of Live Wave 4",
  "id": "technology/blog/2010/apr/28/windows-live-messenger",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}