{
  "content": "On the evening of Thursday 1 November, Iain Overton looked very pleased with himself. Dressed in black tie, and enjoying post-debate drinks at the Oxford Union, the managing editor of the Bureau of Investigative Journalism (BiJ) was in fine form. He had just spoken, with considerable aplomb, against the proposition that \"this house believes that British politics is in the pocket of the media\". By a considerable margin, his side's argument had prevailed. But Overton had another, even more satisfying, reason for his beaming smile: his bureau was on the the verge of breaking an investigative scoop on BBC2's Newsnight. He couldn't help but boast about the story. He let it be known that the programme would reveal that a senior Conservative from the Thatcher era had been responsible for sexually abusing boys. So confident was he of its authenticity that he let the name of the \"top Tory\" slip to one of his fellow speakers, Channel 4's chief political correspondent, Michael Crick. In fact, it has since been reported that it was Crick who floated Lord McAlpine's name. Overton merely confirmed it. I was on the fringe of that conversation, because I happened to be there to speak for the motion. I didn't overhear the name, but I certainly picked up on Overton's enthusiasm for his story. It was, incidentally, the first time he and I had ever met. Next morning, just after 10am, Overton once again showed how sure he was of his ground by tweeting: \"If all goes well we've got a Newsnight out tonight about a very senior political figure who is a paedophile.\" That set the hares running. Other news organisations picked up on the tweet and ran stories that ensured the rest of the media, if not the public, would be monitoring the broadcast. At 2pm, I met Overton at his office, which is located in a building owned by City University London, where I teach. By coincidence, he had agreed with Media Guardian the week before to be interviewed about the BiJ's track record since its inception in April 2010. I was assigned to the task. We spent an hour together running over the bureau's lengthy list of successful investigations, which included the WikiLeaks Iraq war logs, groundbreaking work on drone attacks \u2013 which resulted in a United Nations inquiry \u2013 and an analysis of deaths in police custody that led to a review by the Independent Police Complaints Commission. Many of the BiJ's investigations involved going into partnership with broadcasters, including various BBC programmes. The relationships with big media organisations were essential, he explained, to ensure legal cover in the face of what can be \"heavyweight threats\". But he said the bureau had done its job well enough never to have been sued. He went on to state how important it was for the bureau to gain charitable status in order to make it easier to raise funds. At present, it relies largely on a \u00a32m grant by the Elaine and David Potter foundation. Meanwhile, Crick was beavering away throughout the day. Though Oxford Union debates are held under Chatham House rules, what is said between journalists in the hospitality room is, of course, another matter. Crick managed to contact the former Tory politician to tell him what was going to be alleged about him. On Channel 4 News that evening, Crick duly reported that he had spoken to \"a former senior political figure\" \u2013 whom he did not name \u2013 and said that the man had strenuously denied the claims. In spite of that denial, Newsnight ran with the report by the BiJ's veteran reporter, Angus Stickler. The man's identity was not revealed. Stickler's evidence rested on an interview with Steven Messham, who said he had been raped by the senior Tory at a hotel near the Bryn Estyn care home in Wrexham in the 1980s. Days of speculation followed in which McAlpine's name was besmirched on Twitter until the Guardian, on Friday 8 November, ran a front page story debunking the bureau's Newsnight investigation, 'Mistaken identity' led to top Tory abuse claim. The revelation, with subsequent on-the-record denials by McAlpine's lawyer, a rapid apology by Steven Messham and a subsequent climbdown by Newsnight, led to the current BBC crisis. But what happens now to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism? As Shiv Malik reported today, the BiJ is fighting for its survival. Despite its track record, it has been responsible for what Lord Patten has called \"shoddy journalism.\" As for Overton, his resignation may yet save the bureau. Did his tweet pressure Newsnight's editor into going with the story too soon and without the necessary checks \u2013 such as showing Messham a picture of his alleged abuser and putting the allegations to McAlpine? We may discover the truth after Nick Pollard concludes his inquiry. For now though, let me simply record how very sad it is to see him become another victim of the Newsnight debacle. Triumph turned to tragedy for him within a week.",
  "title": "Why Iain Overton had to resign from Bureau of Investigative Journalism...",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/investigative-journalism",
    "media/newsnight",
    "politics/lord-mcalpine",
    "media/bbc",
    "media/channel4",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/wikileaks",
    "media/lord-patten"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade on the behind-the-scenes story behind yet another resignation stemming from the Newsnight debacle",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2012/nov/12/investigative-journalism-newsnight",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}