{
  "content": "In the nearly nine months since the Edward Snowden revelations began on this website, some of the most jaw-dropping surveillance news has involved a company called RSA, which for years has been one of the top computer security firms in the world. Boiled down, RSA is alleged to have weakened a core element of a widely used encryption product at the behest of the National Security Agency, receiving $10 million in the process of providing a \"back door\" for government snooping. RSA issued what amounted to a non-denial denial after Reuters' Joseph Menn broke a key part of the story back in December. This week, at its annual cyber-security conference here in San Francisco, the company was on defense at an event usually reserved for looking forward, not back. Its CEO said that any weakness was inadvertent, at least on RSA's part, and not the result of some nefarious deal with the US government. Respected cryptographer and university professor Matt Blaze summed it up nicely: \"Everyone to RSA: Did you deliberately sell us out, or are you incompetent? RSA: We're incompetent\". It's too early to tell whether this incompetence \u2013 or betrayal, take your pick \u2013 will hit RSA and its $51bn parent company, EMC, where it should: on the bottom line. And despite a boycott by some scheduled speakers here, the RSA conference was well-attended. As one security expert who's expressed contempt for the company's behavior told me, it's still his best chance to catch up, face-to-face, with other top people in this still burgeoning field. But the episode did spark another gathering, held Thursday across the street from where RSA held its conference, where the topic of the moment wasn't security, per se. It was trust, a commodity in short supply these days. \"TrustyCon\" \u2013 short for the Trustworthy Technology Conference \u2013 came together in a hurry after Mikko Hypponen, chief research officer for F-Secure, a Finnish security company, announced in January, in a public letter to RSA, that he was canceling his scheduled RSA conference talk and that his own company would skip the event entirely. Hypponen, a rock star in the computer security world, gave the opening keynote at TrustyCon instead. It was a pessimistic assessment of technology users' chances to have a computing and communications they can genuinely trust in an age when nation-states have taken over as the most dangerous \u2013 even malicious \u2013 hackers on Earth. \"Our worst fears turned out to be fairly accurate,\" Hypponen said of what's transpired in the security world over the past few years. And he's right: in the past nine months, it's become clear that many of the people once derided as paranoid were, if anything, understating the reality of how much we're all being watched. Certainly, Thursday's revelation on this website that spy services had become outright peeping toms by hijacking webcam images would have sounded ridiculous not so long ago. Alas, from betrayal rose a glimmer of hope in this insidery community \u2013 that privacy might make an everyday comeback, and maybe even sell. At TrustyCon, for example, technologists updated the audience on an important security service for whistleblowers and the journalists to whom they leak documents. This was \"SecureDrop\", a project started by the late Aaron Swartz and now run by the Freedom of the Press Foundation which ensures safe communications by relying on the Tor web-anonymity system. No one says SecureDrop is perfect. But it is easy to use and robust, a vast improvement over what journalists have typically deployed. Early this week, meanwhile, I downloaded the new version of a free Android-based messaging app called \"TextSecure\". It's open-source, easy to use and designed with privacy in mind. As its maker, Whisper Systems, observed on its blog: \"A user simply sends a message, and it's encrypted end to end, every time. Unlike other IM services, there is no distinction between 'private' chats and 'normal' chats. Private is normal\". The app has a number of excellent features that, from my perspective, make it the current leader in the field. It's not going to supplant WhatsApp or the other mega-popular messaging software anytime soon, but for people who truly value their privacy, well, it looks like the one to beat. (Whisper Systems also offers an encrypted mobile voice app, RedPhone.) Another positive development, during an annual week of surprises turned necessarily sour, was the release of \"Blackphone\", a mobile phone created by people with serious credibility in the security community. It's also built for privacy from the ground-up. Blackphone is based on the Android operating system but has a number of changes and enhancements that make it much more secure than Google's standard version of Android. At $629, it's not cheap , and the company can't guarantee absolute security against, say an NSA-level attacker of core mobile technologies out of the company's control, but I can imagine a real market for this device. \"Market\" is a key word. The predations of the NSA and other agencies in the US and around the world have, at long last, sparked serious interest in products and services designed to protect users of technology from assaults of all kinds, criminal, corporate and governmental. Venture capital, not just taxpayers' money, has long poured into technology designed to invade our privacy, so it's gratifying to see some investment going into ways to protect it from snoops of all kinds. Political and social activists \u2013 many of whom will be in San Francisco next week for RightsCon, a conference where human rights people exhort technologists to work for social justice, not just money \u2013 are glad to see a growing security consciousness among average people who never used to give this stuff a second thought. In a better world, we wouldn't have to pay extra for privacy and security. In this one, we do \u2013 if it's available at all. Just having the choice will represent progress. \"We're not going to solve this today,\" Alex Stamos, a security expert and principal organizer of TrustyCon, said as he opened the event. \"But we hope to start the conversation about what it means to build trustworthy systems.\"",
  "title": "Snowden made cyber-geek nightmares true. Can 'private' be normal again? | Dan Gillmor",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "world/surveillance",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "technology/aaron-swartz"
  ],
  "lead": "Dan Gillmor: The NSA leaks created everyday interest in products built to protect. At a security pow-wow turned sour, that's a good thing",
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/feb/28/snowden-privacy-products-trustycon-2014",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}