{
  "content": "Privacy is a fundamental civil liberty and must be protected by law. Many people would agree, and recent controversies about the scope of the national DNA database and CCTV show how sensitive we've become about intrusion. The justice minister, Tom McNally, shares the feeling: in July he called for the public to help ensure the law remains fit for the purpose of protecting our private information. Concerns about privacy even led the coalition initially to propose a ban on publishing the names of men charged with rape. Yet when it protects celebrities' private lives from intrusion by the press, the law is routinely presented as a threat to freedom; and the same Lord McNally sees judges' application of privacy law as dangerous and in need of \"clarification\" (usually, on legal questions, a euphemism for \"change\"). Our privacy law, though, was not created by stealthy judges. It was imposed on them by parliament in the Human Rights Act 1998 \u2013 specifically the right to respect for private life, which judges have been loyally protecting in cases involving high-profile figures such as Naomi Campbell, Max Mosley and Colin Montgomerie ever since the act, strongly supported by McNally's party, was passed. It's sometimes claimed that the development of this relatively new privacy law could inhibit investigative journalism and the exposure of important public scandals \u2013 such as MPs' expenses. But where's the evidence for this claim? Nothing has been reported at greater length and in greater depth than the expenses story, which involved publishing all kinds of details about work done at MPs' houses, what TV channels they watch and even their shopping receipts. Privacy law didn't get in the way, because it doesn't stop reporting in the public interest. It already strikes the balance McNally is looking for. To understand what's at stake here, we need to notice the types of cases that are actually causing concern in press circles. They aren't those involving politics, corruption or public money. On the contrary, they more often involve celebrity, sport and sex. But what's the public interest in exposing the sex life of a golfer, footballer or motor-sport administrator, any more than yours or mine? None, is the answer: the interest is overwhelmingly commercial. If it's true that privacy law has begun to prevent such exposures then that should be reassuring rather than dangerous. The fact that it didn't do so in Mosley's case or John Terry's ought to make people think before concluding that those stealthy privacy judges have gone too far. There is legitimate cause for concern about superinjunctions \u2013 where a court orders that even the fact an injunction has been granted cannot be published. But as the lord chief justice, Lord Judge, has said, there is a limited place even for such a severely restrictive order in a rare case where such publication would defeat the entire purpose of the underlying injunction, or cause the very damage the injunction is aimed to prevent. The master of the rolls, Lord Neuberger, is already chairing a committee considering the use of superinjunctions; better to await his conclusions than to reach now for legislation, which may be too blunt an instrument to solve the problem. Freedom of expression is vital, and too often unprotected against bigotry and the tyranny of \"offence\". To see its essence as consisting in celebrity gossip is to dishonour it \u2013 and to protect the unbalanced tabloid culture we've had for too long.",
  "title": "Exposing celebrities' sex lives is not in the public interest | Carl Gardner",
  "lead": "Carl Gardner: Privacy laws that protect celebrities from press intrusion are no threat to public freedom \u2013 whatever the tabloids may claim",
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "world/privacy",
    "lifeandstyle/celebrity",
    "media/media",
    "law/law",
    "uk/uk",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2010/aug/17/exposing-celebrity-sex-lives-public-interest",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}