{
  "content": "When culture secretary David Mellor accepted the idea of the self-regulation of newspapers, he famously warned that the press were \"drinking in the last-chance saloon\". In exposing his affair with the actor Antonia de Sancha some time later, journalists used a loophole in the law to listen in on phone conversations between the two. The gaps exposed by such cases in the old law - the Interception of Communications Act 1985 - were supposed to have been closed by the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000, which prohibits unlawful interception of communications by post or phone. The act also specifically prohibits hacking into mobile phone systems - including voicemail, which is still \"in transmission\" as far as the act is concerned, and thus covered by it - which is punishable by a fine or up to two years in jail. What is not clear after the exposure of the widespread hacking of phone messages is why, if this evidence was available, no further prosecutions were brought. It may be that the Crown Prosecution Service felt that under the law as it stands, there was no likelihood of a conviction, one of the tests they apply to the evidence amassed by police when deciding whether to prosecute. If so, it is possible that legislators may want to revisit this area of law. Many journalists without access to, or the desire to use, the techniques allegedly used by the News of the World will not worry much about a strengthened RIPA. But parliament's appetite for reform may not stop there. This is only the latest example of invasions of privacy, which the courts have started punishing more severely, in cases such as Max Mosley's. With the likes of John Prescott describing the PCC response to phone hacking as \"useless\", could the issue of self-regulation be on the agenda again? MPs have been told they cannot self-regulate, and Prescott, who has a lot of backbench support, is now very vocally wondering why the press should be allowed to. If the result is a regulator with teeth - an Ofcom for the press - then perhaps Mellor was right and now it is last orders in the last-chance saloon. \u00b7 The writer is the co-author of McNae's Essential Law for Journalists (20th ed), published 30 July",
  "title": "Regulation of newspapers",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pcc",
    "media/medialaw",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "David Banks: David Mellor warned that the press were \"drinking in the last-chance saloon\" with the idea of the self-regulation of newspapers",
  "id": "media/2009/jul/13/david-mellor-self-regulation-newspapers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}