{
  "content": "Sunday newspaper the People has been lambasted by the press complaints commission for publishing pictures taken by a long lens camera of former Coronation Street actress Julie Goodyear sitting in her back garden. Long lens photography used to take pictures in private places is clearly outlawed by the PCC's editorial code of practice. But even though Neil Wallis, who was the editor of the People when the photographs were published in October 2002, sits on the PCC's board and is fully aware of the code, the paper decided to publish the pictures regardless. Goodyear, who is famous for playing barmaid Bet Lynch in the soap, complained about the pictures, saying she clearly had an expectation of privacy in her own garden. However, Wallis argued the garden was not hidden by trees or bushes and claimed it was possible to see Goodyear from public places bordering her property. In its defence, the People enclosed copies of contracts showing it had previously paid Goodyear for features and stories about her home. She could not now legitimately complain that her privacy had been invaded when in the past she had been willing to use similar photographs for her own purposes, Wallis argued. The PCC upheld the actress's complaint, saying that, as a long lens camera had been necessary to take the pictures, \"it was unlikely passers-by - even if they could have seen figures in the garden - would have been able to identify the complainant\". \"It was clear the complainant had a reasonable expectation of privacy where she was sitting,\" the PCC added in its adjudication. The commission conceded that in previous adjudications it has ruled people can limit their rights to privacy by selling information or pictures of their private life. However, it stressed this did not mean they lost all rights to protection under the code. \"In this case the editor made the wrong decision,\" stated the PCC. \"The code is extremely strict about the use of long lens photography to take pictures of people in private places and the commission did not consider that the previous publication of mutually agreed feature stories was a sufficient reason in these particular circumstances to breach it.\" Clause three of the PCC's editorial code of practice, which relates to privacy, states: \"The use of long lens photography to take pictures of people in private places without their consent is unacceptable.\"",
  "title": "Watchdog raps People over Goodyear photos",
  "lead": " The People has been lambasted by the PCC for publishing pictures of ex-Coronation Street star Julie Goodyear sitting in her back garden. By Ciar Byrne",
  "tags": [
    "media/thepeople",
    "media/television",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/feb/13/thepeople.broadcasting",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}