{
  "content": "Lucian Tarnowski has a big idea - he thinks recruitment is a sector ripe for disruption and is reinventing it for Generation Y through BraveNewTalent.com. Next on his hitlist is education, which he thinks is 'no longer fit for purpose'.  Tarnowksi launched his company in 2008 and now has 10 full-time staff working from a base in London's Soho and in India. The beta version of the site launch in October 2009 on the back of \u00a3500,000 funding from angel investors and \u00a3100,000 from an Enterprise Finance Guarantee loan, and the company has already acquired video site HereComesTheBoss.com. It's all starting with a beta group of 7,000 and some community building on behalf of companies including Tesco, Eversheds and Allen &amp; Overy. Here's how Tarnowksi says he plans to meet those very big ambitions. \u2022 What's your pitch? \"BraveNewTalent is a website that allows jobseekers and employers to come together and interact in an online environment. This means that employers are able to hire from a community of people rather than having to rely on recruitment agencies and advertising on job boards. \"Jobseekers can register on the site for free and create a professional profile. They can choose which companies they would be interested in working for and keep up to date on that employer's tweets, blogs, videos, jobs, etc. Employers sign up and are able to interact with a pool of talented people who are interested in their company. They can engage with them and work out which ones would fit well into their organisation.\" \u2022 How do you make money? \"Our first major product is called Talent Words. It is similar to Google Adwords but created specifically for the recruitment marketplace. Our clients take out campaigns where we use social media marketing tools to build them a community. Our clients specify who they wish to target (choosing specific universities, courses, locations etc.) and we build a community full of people that meet their criteria. The end result will be something that delivers a substantial return on investment.\" \u2022 How are you surviving the downturn? \"The social recruiting market is hot and only getting hotter. BraveNewTalent is well placed in Europe to take advantage of this opportunity. More and more employers want to use social media to engage, but they find Facebook to be too social and unprofessional. BraveNewTalent supports what they are already doing and makes their social recruiting strategy more impactful.\" \u2022 What's your background? \"I graduated from Edinburgh University in 2007. I was interested in Gen Y and the graduate workplace while I was studying and have been working full time on BraveNewTalent.com ever since. I have also been running the charity Take Heart India since I was 19.\" \u2022 What makes your business unique? \"We use social media to create communities for employers. By using our technology, employers are able to see and engage with the people that wish to work for them before they apply.\" \u2022 What has been your biggest achievement so far? \"Earlier this year I was named Europe's youngest Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum. This is a huge honour for me; I am in the company of some truly amazing people.\" \u2022 Who in the tech business inspires you? \"I receive inspiration from my team, my board and my family but there is also a strong community of tech entrepreneurs developing in London. The support network is fantastic and many of the people are now some of my closest friends.\" \u2022 What's your biggest challenge? \"Timing. The move from traditional models of recruitment to social recruiting is not happening across the board. We have no doubts this will happen, however, we need more employers to take the lead and really embrace the benefits.\" \u2022 What's the most important web tool that you use each day? \"It has to be the range of Google tools. I use lots of web tools that make my life easier to manage and organize. Being tuned in 24/7 is very important to me so, as far as physical tools go, it would definitely be my iPhone, although the iPad can do a lot of great things.\" \u2022 Name your closest competitors \"We are in a strong position for the European market. Our closest competitors are in the US. Sites such as Koda.us, Brazen Careerist and services like Jobvite and Jobs2Web are competitors. Although we have a unique proposition in the global recruitment market, everyone has competition. In the UK, our closest competitors are those that take the lion's share of graduate budgets such as Milkround and Total Jobs.\" \u2022 Where do you want the company to be in five years? \"I want BraveNewTalent.com to be a global talent network, home to talent communities around every major employer. I also have a future goal for BraveNewTalent to disrupt the education space. I believe the formal education system is no longer fit for purpose in the twenty-first century. There is a growing skills gap. My vision is to enable employers to deliver training content to their communities through BraveNewTalent. This can be used as a way to filter the best talent and develop the skills employers need in advance of the job application. Change in the recruitment world is long overdue and I often describe BraveNewTalent.com as one of the most disruptive concepts in the recruitment market. I was privileged to be on the Global Entrepreneur Program, which means we receive full support from the UK Government (UK Trade &amp; Investment) as a 'Technology Company of Exceptional Potential', which means they think we could be the next billion dollar technology company.\" \u2022 Sell to Google, or be bigger than Google? \"I already have a very good relationship with Google. I'm going say neither, but I would love to compete with them in terms of impact. Where Google has made access to information free to all with an internet connection, my dream is that BraveNewTalent makes access to online education free for all.\" BraveNewTalent.com",
  "title": "Elevator Pitch: BraveNewTalent does recruitment - Generation-Y style",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/startups",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Lucian Tarnowski's recruitment community site is just the start. Next, he wants to rebuild online education. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "media/pda/2010/oct/11/recruitment-startup-bravenewtalent",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}