{
  "content": "We live in an information age, with knowledge flowing in unprecedented ways. Recent weeks have been dramatic proof of that. Twitter helped oust Hosni Mubarak. Thanks to global, 24-hour news reporting, Muammar Gaddafi's actions cannot be hidden. Global citizens watch in real time as events unfold in Japan. In such an age ideas are everything and openness reigns supreme. Power rests, increasingly, on winning the argument, and censorship has no place. Yet what we see in the world is not reflected in what we do here at home. Freedom of speech \u2013 a long-cherished British right \u2013 has been eroded. We cannot boast full freedom for our press: while our legal system is one of our greatest exports we still operate outdated, arcane libel laws that belong to another time. These are laws that tip the balance in favour of vested interests, that allow journalists and academics to be bullied into silence, to be kept quiet by the fear of ruinous legal battles with big business or wealthy individuals. London is the number one destination for libel tourism, where foreign claimants bring cases against foreign defendants to our courts \u2013 even when the connection with England is tenuous at best. It is a farce that has prompted Barack Obama to legislate to protect his citizens from rulings in our courts. These laws make a mockery of British justice. They kill debate and smother scientific inquiry. They undermine our moral authority as we seek to promote the values of an open society in other parts of the world. And it is ordinary people who really suffer: protecting their interests means ensuring corruption can be unearthed and charlatans exposed. Of course, individual citizens must be able to protect their reputations from false and damaging claims, and we cannot allow companies to be the victims of damaging, untrue and malicious statements. But from the humble blogger to the consumer watchdog, corporate whistleblower, medical researcher, or roving reporter, public-spirited voices must be heard. So the coalition government has published a bill that will transform England's libel laws. These are the reforms the Liberal Democrats fought hard for in opposition. We are levelling the playing field, creating new protections for those seeking to speak out \u2013 including, crucially, a new statutory \"public interest\" defence for use in libel cases. And no action will be successful unless the claimant can prove the allegedly defamatory statements have caused them real harm. We are addressing libel tourism by tightening the rules so that it is much harder to bring overseas claims to our courts when there is little connection to the UK. If such a link can't be demonstrated our judges will simply turn the case away. The bill will update the law so that, finally, it will reflect the realities of the internet. A new \"single publication rule\" will mean repeat claims cannot be made every time a publication is accessed online. And we want to go further \u2013 we have also launched a consultation calling for views on changing the law to better protect \"secondary publishers\", like discussion forums and internet service providers. They must not be unfairly targeted for content over which they have no control. And of course any action to reform libel must also look at money. Just take the experiences of the Guardian's Ben Goldacre. He raised concerns over vitamins marketed to HIV/Aids victims as an alternative to antiretroviral drugs. He and the Guardian were sued for libel, but despite the case being dropped, the costs to the Guardian still far exceeded the costs recovered. Not all writers have the support of a newspaper. So is it any surprise that the threat of bankruptcy has such a chilling effect? Our changes to libel proceedings will massively reduce the time they take, and so the costs they incur, too. They will do much to mitigate what is so often an inequality of arms between claimants and defendants. We are also considering whether we need to put specific restrictions on big corporations looking to sue. And we are reviewing civil litigation funding across the board \u2013 including no-win-no-fee conditional arrangements, which can increase legal costs out of all proportion. These reforms will create libel laws that will be a foundation for free speech, instead of an international embarrassment. In a modern, liberal and open society dissent should be celebrated, and debate should be raucous. The press should be free \u2013 and in our society, they will be.",
  "title": "Nick Clegg: We will end the libel farce",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "law/libel-reform",
    "media/press-freedom",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media",
    "law/law",
    "media/medialaw"
  ],
  "lead": "Nick Clegg: Shameful libel laws kill debate and smother scientific inquiry. Our coalition bill will let the press be free",
  "id": "commentisfree/2011/mar/15/libel-law-reform-free-press",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}