{
  "content": "Anyone expecting one of the figures behind the world's most popular online game, the sword and sorcery epic World of Warcraft, to serve up another instalment of blood, guts and glory with his latest online venture is going to be in for a shock when his new project goes live next week. There's no fighting in the world of Boaki, there are no items to trade and players must collaborate as they try and solve the mystery of what happened to the previous inhabitants of their strange new world. But the most striking difference is that the new \"game\" is aimed specifically at children. The recent spat between Facebook and Ceop, the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre, over the social networking site's refusal to follow rival Bebo and place a \"panic button\" on its site so that children can report suspicious behaviour, has highlighted the safety issues faced by sites that attract children. The social networking site had come under pressure following last month's conviction of Peter Chapman, the serial rapist who posed as a teenager on Facebook and later murdered 17-year-old Ashleigh Hall. Last week, Dr Zoe Hilton, Ceop's head of safeguarding and child protection, attacked Facebook's subsequent announcement that it would introduce a range of new measures \u2013 including a \u00a35m education and awareness campaign and a redesigned abuse-reporting system \u2013 as \"simply overdue\" and \"no replacement for an effective and immediate response for children who need help while using their services\". Children love using the web to interact with other people. The problem is where they are doing it. Recent research from regulator Ofcom showed that a quarter of those aged eight to 12 who use the internet at home have a profile on Facebook, Bebo or MySpace. But Facebook and Bebo are both supposed to restrict membership to over-13s while MySpace sets its age limit a year higher. There are a host of sites specifically aimed at children, from six-year-olds taking their first steps online to cynical bedroom-bound teenagers. Some of these sites \u2013 such as Neopets, which is aimed at the young teen market, and Habbo Hotel, whose inhabitants are a little older \u2013 have been dealing with safety issues for a decade, far longer than Facebook. And all provide environments in which children can learn the online social skills that will make them much safer as the web becomes an increasingly important part of their lives. The colourful 3D online environment of Boaki is the brainchild of Christophe Ramboz, the former head of Vivendi Universal Games, and Roland Oskian, founder of French educational CD-Rom maker Coktel Vision. During his time at Vivendi, Ramboz presided over shoot-'em-up games such as Half Life, as well as bringing World of Warcraft to Asia and Europe. But four years ago the Frenchman quit, having tired of blood and gore. \"By the end I was pissed off,\" he admits. \"It was like the technology was allowing us to do something really beautiful but the key was violence, violence, violence. So I took my money and I invested in this new company with Roland and we have been working for four years on Boaki. We believe that parents - and kids - do not want to have competition, killing, fighting, beating each other, in their games. We have built Boaki around collaboration. You get better when you partner with someone in the game, that is how you gain levels. You win together, you do not win alone.\" There is also no trading within Boaki, unlike other online games where the quest for virtual riches has lead to the creation of gaming sweatshops in Asia in which people play for hours to collect items that can be sold to rich gamers in the west. Online avarice has even lead to murder. In 2005, 41-year-old Chinese gamer Qiu Chengwei was sentenced to death for the murder of Zhu Caoyuan, 26 \u2013 after alleging that the younger man had stolen an item from him in the game Legend of Mir III. Boaki was opened to French children late last year and will be available to their British counterparts this week. Its creators have taken a very proactive approach to policing it, offering two systems by which users can \"chat\" with each other. The first of these is a series of pre-written pieces of dialogue from which users can choose. Initially, British players will be able to use these to chat with the existing 135,000 French players of the game, as the site will translate for them. Other \"worlds\" aimed at kids, such as online pets site Webkinz and Disney's Club Penguin, also offer restricted chat so parents can be sure that their children are not saying or hearing anything inappropriate. Stardoll, the doll fashion site that has over 57 million members, goes even further and automatically puts any child under 13 on a Kid Safe membership that blocks chat completely. But most kids want to be able to talk, so Boaki also offers \"open chat\", but only between 5pm and 8pm. As with many sites aimed at children in which play is anonymous, Boaki forbids the sharing of personal details, such as email addresses and phone numbers and chat is monitored by a team of moderators who can enter the game and admonish those who break the rules. It's a similar situation at Club Penguin, which filters all free chat to allow only pre-approved words and phrases. Boaki is free to play, but membership \u2013 \u00a33.95 a month or \u00a337.95 a year \u2013 gives players greater chance to personalise their virtual character. It's a similar model to that of the British online gaming world Moshi Monsters, in which kids pick a monster and play games and puzzles to win \"Rox\" that can be used to buy items for their virtual pet. Created by the co-founder of online retailer Firebox, Michael Acton Smith, Moshi Monsters launched in 2008 but really took off last year, when it introduced social-networking tools. \"The penny-drop moment for us was when we realised that kids loved communicating and showing off and being creative and chatting to their friends online just as much as grown-ups do,\" Smith says. \"We felt that if we could build safe social tools that enabled kids to do all these things, we could build something as large in the kids space as Facebook has in the adult space. What we wanted was to create an environment where kids could be kids, where they could be creative, connect with each other but not to the extent where it was a wild west where anything goes. So we use a series of pre- and post-moderation, we use software filtering, we have buttons where kids can report anything they see that they are not comfortable with. But they also do have a fair amount of creative freedom.\" Moshi Monsters, aimed at kids under 13, now has well over 16 million users and while many play for free, some pay \u00a35 a month to get additional features. Smith, whose company Mindcandy is backed by venture capital firms that also invested in Facebook and social game developer Playfish, snapped up by Electronic Arts for $275m last year, has grand ambitions. A single has already been released online, a book deal has just been signed and he wants to let users play music in their pet's room with a \"Moshified\" version of Spotify. The over-13 age group, meanwhile, already has its own online world in the form of Habbo Hotel. Now in its 10th year, it has amassed over 162 million registered avatars who use the site to organise everything from parties to fashion shows - the current search for the site's best designer was recently kicked off by Miley Cyrus. \"That is not the kind of community you can build up without having the right safety measures in place,\" says its UK country manager Oisin Lunny. \"But it is also a constant balancing act between safety and protection on one side and engagement and freedom of expression on the other.\" As well as automated moderation that blocks personal information and offensive language and flags potentially predatory behaviour, the site uses real-time moderation by police-vetted supervisors who are online 24 hours a day and can refer cases to Ceop, or point individual \"Habbos\" towards help from specialists such as Frank and Childline. But with 100,000 sign-ups every day, the use of community-based moderation and technology becomes essential as humans alone would not be able to deal with that level of activity. \"It's a job that you are never really finished with, the system is never right, it's a constantly evolving process in the same way as our user base is constantly growing and evolving,\" according to Lunny. And it is this scale of growth that has financiers excited. Back in 2005, Neopets, which has 60 million registered users, was bought by Viacom for $160m, but it was Disney's $700m swoop for Club Penguin in 2007 that alerted the financial markets to the potential of online kids' communities. It's pressure the Moshi Monsters team is feeling. Backed by Index Ventures, which financed online music site Last.fm, and Facebook investor Accel Partners, as well as 15 \"business angels\" who have taken personal stakes, including Tom Teichman of SPARK Ventures and advertising guru John Hegarty - of Bartleboglehegarty fame - Moshi Monsters is cashflow positive and now \"very profitable\", Smith said, with revenues growing 20% month on month and that means the takeover approaches have started. \"There is a lot of flirting, meetings and lunches,\" Smith admits. \"I am personally having way too much fun running this company at the moment to consider selling it. But that said, we are venture-backed and we do have a lot of shareholders that do want an exit eventually. I would love to build something huge that makes London and the UK proud and really puts us on the map. I would rather shoot for a huge exit than maybe take a safer early exit and a lot of people might think I am crazy doing that but I think this is not just about making money but building something really exciting for the long term.\" What about becoming potentially the UK's biggest consumer dotcom flotation since Moneysupermarket.com three years ago? \"I think a trade sale would be more likely,\" Smith says. \"Running a public company would be less fun. I could not wear my tatty trainers any more.\" While his industry is enjoying an adolescent-like growth spurt, Smith at least, has no desire to grow up just yet.",
  "title": "Creating the next dotcom boom could  be child's play",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/business",
    "technology/world-of-warcraft",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/bebo",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/ofcom",
    "technology/myspace",
    "media/last-fm"
  ],
  "lead": "As Facebook wrestles with safety issues, a surge in social networks specifically for kids is enticing major investors",
  "id": "business/2010/apr/25/boaki-social-networking-child-safety-online",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}