{
  "content": "Anyone who ever wanted to disappear after posting drunken photos on Facebook will be pleased to hear that the European Union has announced its intention to legislate for a right to be forgotten. Viviane Reding, the justice commissioner, who is proposing the law, cites Facebook's inadequate privacy settings and new web 2.0 technologies as reasons the EU needs to get tough. \"People shall have the right to withdraw their consent to data processing\" and to be forgotten online, she says. Users could sue social networking sites for invading their privacy and will get powers to protect further their personal data. The idea of a \"right to be forgotten\" is taken increasingly seriously \u2013 at least in Europe. In Britain, Ed Vaizey, the communications minister, has voiced concerns about Google's privacy policy. The French government supports a charter on the Droit a l'Oubli. And Spain's privacy regulator has ordered Google (which is contesting) to delete out-of-date and inaccurate information. But does the \"right to be forgotten\" really have a sound basis? In British law there is no right to be forgotten, but there are a host of laws to protect your identity and personal data. The Data Protection Act 1998 protects personal information such as medical records and copyright law has been used to permanently remove copied information and images on websites. European courts have extended the remit of privacy law over the years. Under article 8 of the Human Rights Act 1998, everyone has the right to \"respect for private and family life\" from the state. In practice, individuals have won \"respect\" from media organisations too. Judges have been keen to balance a right to privacy with a right to freedom of expression and have banned the publication of information from time to time. In Princess Caroline of Monaco's case in 2004, the European court of human rights outlawed photography of her shopping with her children. It ruled that individuals had an expectation of privacy, even if they're royal and seen by millions in public. You can't ask somebody to erase their memories of course. But you can ask the courts to make them keep quiet. Injunctions to keep claimants in court anonymous and details of a case private are increasingly popular. Last year a TV celebrity won a \"gagging order\" to stop his ex-wife talking about his affair after he remarried. Another public figure won a similar \"super-injunction\" to protect his privacy. Calls for online protection are growing. Some people don't just want personal information to be private, they want its existence permanently removed. Online reputation managers offer services to help you \u2013 or at least personal information on the internet you don't like \u2013 be forgotten. Their rise indicates that people want the kind of robust protection that governments, celebrities and big businesses enjoy. Relying on antivirus software and privacy legislation in a virtual world that can make endless copies of our data isn't enough. But to say there should be a right to be forgotten is to say we can live outside society. We can't. The world is modern and complex, bound by laws, conventions and culture. There are too many of us and we need organising. In our world, people will always talk about and interact with each other. We may be forgotten in the sense that bad writers, poor politicians, or those without a Facebook account sometimes are. But our fundamental social existence as human beings means we are never truly forgotten. Being forgotten might sound appealing for some, but making a right out of it degrades the concept of rights. Instead of being something that embodies the relationship between the individual and society, it pretends that relationship doesn't exist. The right to be forgotten is a figment of our imaginations. When people talk about wanting to be forgotten they are usually reacting to an invasion of privacy whether real or perceived. I don't blame them. We live in a world that is gambling with our privacy, but we need to be very clear what that means. A right to privacy means something because we live in a society. It is a demand to have privacy from society and still engage in it. To fully function in public life sometimes we need downtime from it. By contrast, a right to be forgotten is about extreme withdrawal, and in its worse guise can be an antisocial, nihilist act. If enacted, a right to be forgotten would signify the emasculation of our power to act in the world. And who benefits from that?",
  "title": "We have no right to be forgotten online | Tessa Mayes",
  "lead": "Tessa Mayes: The European Union is planning to enshrine in law the right to be forgotten on the internet, but we can't live outside society",
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "law/human-rights",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/internet",
    "law/law",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/europe-news",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "law/european-court-of-human-rights",
    "law/human-rights-act",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/right-to-be-forgotten"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2011/mar/18/forgotten-online-european-union-law-internet",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}