{
  "content": "I'd like to begin this piece the same way I used to begin dates; by apologising in advance for the disappointment I'm about to cause. I honestly tried to write the most important article ever, one that would stand the test of time no matter what happened, but the fact is, despite the title, I failed. In my defence, I didn't really think I was capable of writing the most important article ever, but people kept insisting I should. To explain; as someone who's currently reading something online, you're likely familiar with that very modern phenomenon of the comments section. Online comments are everywhere these days, supplied via the site or social network platforms like Facebook, Twitter, Reddit etc. They're often quite critical, and these critical comments take predictable forms. One of the more persistent criticisms is that a piece shouldn't exist because there are \"more important\" stories and issues happening. This can often be phrased as \"how is this news?\", implying that the subject of the article in question doesn't meet the minimum threshold of importance to qualify for being written about. It's an incredibly common complaint, one that writers of more frivolous pieces (i.e. me) are subjected to often. Whenever I post a piece, I'm invariably and angrily told it's stupid and pointless because there are more important things in the news. I don't like upsetting people, even if it is unintentional, so I thought I'd address these complaints. And if the complaint is \"there are more important things\", this means that anything that is less important than something else shouldn't be written about. There's only one definitive solution to this problem; write an article about the most important thing ever. The trouble with that, though, is how do you determine how important something is? For this complaint to make any sense and to address it effectively, we'd require a means by which to objectively measure the importance of an article's subject matter. The dictionary defines importance as: The state or fact of being of great significance or value That's fine, but how do you measure significance or value? There are several possible approaches. Scientific Significance In scientific research, a great deal of time and effort is spent on calculating the significance of results, with a threshold whereby something can be said to be significant \"enough\", known as statistical significance. Scientific experiments also cost a great deal, so are of great monetary value, and potentially have great value to society. Overall, science can accurately demonstrate measurable great significance and value, so logically the most important news story would be about science. Except a look at any major media platform reveals that they disagree with this conclusion. Aside from landmark events like the discovery of the Higgs Boson, scientific research rarely shows up on the front pages of newspapers. The scientific means of measuring significance only works when you have copious amounts of reliable data to assess, and most news stories don't have this. Instead we have stories about politics, celebrities, sports stars, economics, and things like that, so there must be something that means these things are considered important. Monetary Value As well as significance, importance is about having great value, and the aforementioned subjects have a lot of financial value; they earn and control vast sums of wealth (note how a rich person's opinion is considered far more newsworthy than a poorer person's). If financial value equates to importance, the most important news story would be about the wealthiest entity on Earth. So the Sinopec Group if we're talking about companies, Qatar if we're talking about a country, Bill Gates if we mean individuals. Using this system, an article about Bill Gates working for the Sinopec Group in Qatar would be the most important article ever. Except it wouldn't. While wealth is obviously a big influence over what news the media regards as \"important\", what news gets classed as important blatantly goes beyond that. Human Value The value that imparts importance may be the value of a human life, so the importance of a news story may be based on the number of people directly affected by it? Major tragedies and injustices are an obvious citation for those accusing a piece of being unimportant in comparison, but this opens up some worrying issues when trying to work out what's the \"most\" important news story. If 10,000 people die in one tragedy and 15,000 die in another, does that mean the former is unworthy of being reported? What about a tragedy where 100 people do die, versus a possible outbreak of war where thousands of people could die? Is potential harm important enough to be mentioned? Going by most major news stories, it may be that people just need to be affected by a subject, not necessarily badly or severely. The Scottish referendum was a major news event, which could have had many long-term ramifications, but these were all theoretical at the time of reporting, so clearly people don't need to be harmed by a subject for it to be important. This whole issue is wandering into some seriously questionable moral ground, but those demanding more important stories offer no clues about how to navigate it. Subjective Importance The main problem is that the importance of something varies considerably between individuals, depending on many factors. From the very intrinsic like the brain's bias towards negative things (which may explain the general excess of bad news around) to cultural issues and factors. At the time of writing, one of the biggest news stories on this website is about phone hacking at Mirror titles. While this is clearly important for those affected by UK media, law and politics, it is likely of little to no importance to someone in Japan or Uzbekistan or wherever, who aren't affected by these issues. So what's important depends on where you are and your situation. While subjective interpretations of importance by individuals are not exactly scientific, you can still use this approach to measure which stories are regarded as important. The internet gives us unprecedented access to news, and when presented with far more news stories and articles than any one person people could possibly take in, people will likely read articles in order of what they consider important. Ergo, you could easily argue that the most popular articles are the most important. In 2014, the most popular article on this site was about nude celebrities. So, boobs are vitally important to people? There's probably a depressing amount of truth to this. By taking into account all the various means to determine importance discussed here, the most important article ever would be about a scientific study of how much Bill Gates would pay for celebrity nude photos if they could prevent a major tragedy. Sadly, no such thing has happened, so it can't be written about. But using the argument that you shouldn't write about something if there are more important things to write about, every article that isn't about this subject shouldn't exist. So there's something of an impasse here. I could make it up, but this would mean that the most important article ever was a load of nonsense, suggesting that demands that an article meet some unspecified and arbitrary standard of importance to be deemed \"newsworthy\" are utterly meaningless and probably just random whining revealing a complete lack of understanding about how the media and human interest actually works. I guess we'll never know for certain. After all, this is not the most important article in the world. This is just a tribute. Dean Burnett only ever tweets about vital matters. @garwboy",
  "title": "The most important article you'll ever read | Dean Burnett",
  "lead": "Dean Burnett: People often criticise articles on the grounds that 'there are more important things'. But does this make any logical sense?",
  "tags": [
    "science/science",
    "media/news-agencies",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "science/psychology",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "science/brain-flapping/2015/mar/04/the-most-important-article-youll-ever-read",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}