{
  "content": "Hollywood writer-producer Aaron Sorkin, co-creator of The West Wing, is to write a film about the creation of Facebook - and has entered into the social networking spirit of the website by setting up a group page to find out \"how this works\". Sorkin, who also scripted recent Tom Hanks film Charlie Wilson's War along with the Tom Cruise and Jack Nicholson feature A Few Good Men, announced his latest movie project to users of the social networking site by launching a group page on Facebook called Aaron Sorkin &amp; The Facebook Movie. Sorkin has also set up his own private profile page on Facebook. \"I've just agreed to write a movie for Sony and producer Scott Rudin about how Facebook was invented,\" Sorkin wrote in his introduction on the group page. \"I figured a good first step in my preparation would be finding out what Facebook is, so I've started this page.\" The film is likely to look at how, following its creation in 2004 by Harvard student Mark Zuckerberg in his university dorm, Facebook quickly became an internet, business and social phenomenon with more than 100 million users worldwide. Membership at first was restricted to Ivy League university students before being expanded to all US and Canadian universities and high schools, and was later opened to web users worldwide. Facebook's overnight success changed the life, and massively increased the wealth, of Zuckerberg and friends Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes, who helped set up the site. Sorkin wrote in his Facebook group page: \"I understand there are a few other people using Facebook pages under my name, which I find more flattering than creepy - but this is me. I don't know how I can prove that, but feel free to test me. \"I figured a good first step in my preparation would be finding out what Facebook is, so I've started this page. (Actually it was started by my researcher, Ian Reichbach, because my grandmother has more Internet savvy than I do and she's been dead for 33 years.)\" Embracing the community ethos of the social network, Sorkin asked members to get in touch with stories relating to the site and engaged users in a Q&amp;A on his group page fielding questions on issues as diverse as studio interference and the best place to get cheap food in New York. In answer to a question about the proposed Facebook project, he said: \"I honestly don't know how I'm going to write the movie yet.\" Sorkin signed off from his introductory message on Facebook saying: \"I feel about this introduction the way I felt about Sophie's Choice - It could have been funnier.\" The creator of the West Wing, Sports Night and the short-lived Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip recently told the US version of GQ magazine that he had had a meeting with Sue Naegle, prompting speculation that his next TV project might be a cable show. Despite being offered billions for the site, Zuckerberg has remained independent, taking investment from just a few interested parties, including PayPal creator Peter Thiel and Microsoft. The company was reportedly valued at about \u00a38bn last year when Microsoft invested approximately \u00a3125m for a small stake in the company. Facebook's key rivals in social networking, MySpace and Bebo, have both sold out to larger media organisations. MySpace was bought by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation for $580m (\u00a3299m) in 2005, while Bebo was sold to Time Warner's internet arm, AOL, in March this year for $850m. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "West Wing creator Aaron Sorkin to write Facebook movie",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/television",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "film/film",
    "culture/aaron-sorkin"
  ],
  "lead": "West Wing co-creator Aaron Sorkin is to write a film about the creation of Facebook - and has launched a group page on the site. By Oliver Luft",
  "id": "media/2008/aug/28/facebook.television",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}