{
  "content": "Following a farce with a charade, Facebook has ended one of the most cynical corporate stunts in years. After a week of user \"voting\" about corporate policies, the company announced the end of a process that seemed designed to produce the result it got: mass apathy in the face of reality. And that reality is simple enough. Henceforth, Facebook will do what it's been doing all along: what Mark Zuckerberg and his top aides decide is best. Facebook's site-governance system, which stemmed in part from a backlash against its tendency in recent years to make more and more of users' information public and reduce their privacy, did raise intriguing questions about users' roles and rights in our massively networked future. Some journalists called it a quasi-democracy. The emphasis should overwhelmingly have been on the \"quasi\" \u2013 because from all appearances the company has considered the process a distraction, not a serious feature. The vote that just ended was about Facebook's decision to terminate users' supposed ability to veto major modifications in those policies. In order for their \"vote\" to be more than advisory, the company said, it would require 300 million users to participate \u2013 about 30% of its global user base. While the people who voted overwhelmingly didn't like the changes, their numbers fell a wee bit short: 299 million below the magic threshold set by Facebook's owners, to be precise. Commentators pronounced the voting dead due to user indifference, with taunts such as: \"You can't even be brought to click a simple button on the issue!\" While apathy may well have been a factor, it's just as likely that it was caused by users' rational expectations: that what they said meant little or nothing to Zuckerberg and company. Voting in an essentially rigged system is not a meaningful action. The only action that Facebook will ever recognize is the only one that its users are shortsightedly unwilling to take: that is, quitting altogether. What users understand implicitly, but not deeply enough, is that the owner of the service makes the decisions. Apart from government regulation, which increasingly will become necessary as Facebook becomes a quasi-utility (emphasis on \"utility\"), owners always make the decisions that matter in our modern corporatocracy. Users are relevant only to the extent that they keep putting stuff into the site and spending time on it. This is even clearer given what tech journalists are calling the current \"Instagram vs Twitter\" spat \u2013 it should more properly be called Facebook vs Twitter, given that Facebook owns Instagram \u2013 over the use of Instagram images inside Twitter. (Short description: Instagram decided that its users won't be permitted to share their pictures inside Twitter anymore.) What did the users want? Who cares? That's only relevant to the extent that users can be prevented from leaving altogether. This is about corporate needs, period. It always will be. Twitter is playing the victim card this time, but it's been making all kinds of restrictive moves of its own against third parties, aimed at exerting greater and greater control over its own ecosystem. (Disclosure: I'm an investor in one of the companies Twitter treated this way.) But you can expect all of the tech giants \u2013 companies like Facebook, Twitter, Apple, Google, Amazon and others \u2013 to do more and more of this kind of thing. The end of Facebook's silly user-voting system is actually refreshing in this context. It is a reminder of reality: the interests of these corporate giants will always take precedence over yours. Whether you are a third-party company or user, have a Plan B. You're likely to need it.",
  "title": "Users will always pay dearly when Facebook votes with its wallet",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/instagram"
  ],
  "lead": "Dan Gillmor: Facebook is not democratic \u2013 it is part of the corporatocracy. If you don't like it, your only option is to stop using the site",
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/dec/11/facebook-site-governance-rights-vote",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}