{
  "content": "It's a sight sure to terrify any unmarried twentysomething: an online calculator from Time magazine which tells you when you \"should\" marry, in order to fit in with your social group. Sign (OK, click) on the dotted line, hand over the private information of essentially your entire social circle using the Facebook button (Time says it doesn't keep it), and the calculator tells you to the day your deadline for marriage. In my own case, the calculator turned out the gut-wrenchingly disconcerting figure of three months and 28 days. So, suppressing an initial impulse to buy a shotgun and head for Vegas, I decided to dig into what the Time app actually measures. It's not when you should marry What the \"marriage calculator\" actually does is look through the profiles of all of your Facebook friends to find those who have said they are married, and then take the age of marriage for these people. It then calculates the median age of those people at marriage (or, presumably, when they told Facebook they were married). The median is the point at the middle when you put everybody in age order. So if you had five friends who married at 26, 27, 30, 35 and 40, the median married age would be 30. The calculator then takes your current age and tells you how long you've got left if you are to be married at the median age of your friends. What's so wrong with that? All the single ladies Big problem No1: lots of us have plenty of Facebook friends who aren't married. Given most of my friends live in secular London \u2013 where people marry late \u2013 married friends are in a minority. Seriously, take a look: So while I might have only three months to fit in with my married friends, I've clearly got plenty of time before half of my entire social group will be married. Time is comparing me to a fairly atypical subset of my friends (in my case, largely made up of Christian Union friends from university). Just because they married young doesn't mean my other friends plan to. Your friends tend to be the same age as you While Time gave me a ticking clock of less than four months , it told a colleague who's a little older than me he had more than six months until he \"should\" get married. He's been married for 13 years. Why the gap? To put it simply, most of us have social groups overwhelmingly made up of people around our age. If you're 21, you might have one or two friends who are already married, and who are also your age. Time will tell you the clock is ticking and that you should marry by 22. If you're 40, many more of your social group will be paired up. But lots of them will only have joined Facebook recently, lots of people marry late, and so on \u2013 and so the median age of your social group will be much later. Most of the time, Time's calculator will essentially end up telling you the normal age to marry is whatever age you currently are. It's not so much saying when you should marry as how old your social group is. Some people are gay An extra little wrinkle: not everyone can get married yet. Time's three-month and 28-day deadline for me was made all the more brutal by the fact I can't actually legally marry in my native country (the always lovely if somewhat waterlogged England) for another six weeks and five days. Same-sex marriage is only legal in a minority of US states, and has only recently been legalised in most of those. Unsurprisingly, this has a considerable impact on the marriage market: most obviously, no-one gets a legally recognised marriage where it's not legal. But there's a more subtle effect: because lots of long-term same-sex couples have had to wait most of their lives to get married, the average age of people's first civil partnership or same-sex marriage is currently in the late 40s (sometimes early 50s). As same-sex marriage becomes established this will come down, but for now gay people really should be allowed a little extra time. You really don't have to marry It's true: you don't. The US has one of the highest marriage rates of western democracies, and Americans marry younger. But even in the US, marriage rates are dropping \u2013 though divorce rates are falling, too. When people aren't required to marry, those marriages that do take place tend to last better. Some people prefer to wait. Others cohabit. And some dislike the very concept of marriage, on principle. A bonus of a liberal society is that's pretty much your own choice: a sentiment that Time, which is open about how the tool it built in the spirit of grabbing Valentine's week traffic works, almost undoubtedly shares. So feel free to stop worrying about marriage, and resume worrying about how to get through another four days of Valentine's-themed news. It's going to be tough.",
  "title": "It may be Time you got married\u2026 but not because Facebook told you to do so",
  "lead": "James Ball: A new calculator wants to use the profiles of your friends to predict when you'll tie the knot. Date-wise, it's divorced from reality",
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/time-magazine",
    "media/us-press-publishing",
    "media/media",
    "society/gay-marriage",
    "society/society",
    "lifeandstyle/marriage",
    "lifeandstyle/valentines-day",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/world",
    "us-news/us-news"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2014/feb/10/time-magazine-online-marriage-calculator-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}