{
  "content": "Protests across Brazil have drawn millions to the streets in a wave of rolling fury that has built into the biggest demonstrations for decades in the country. Following on from Monday night's mass demonstrations, Brazilians took to the streets again last night to denounce the government, cuts to key public services and the distribution of finances for next year's World Cup. Unlike previous protests in the country, this year's uprising has played out across social networks in a build up of images, videos and stories left on Facebook, Twitter and GuardianWitness - showing unseen footage and pictures from the streets. Users have been contacting the Guardian since the beginning of the uprising, many using the GuardianWitness tool to tell us what's happening on the ground and feed into reports from the Guardian's Brazil correspondent Jonathan Watts. From Monday night's procession in Rio to last night's clashes with police in Salvador - here are some of the stories, images and videos from the protests so far as seen through Guardian readers' eyes. To share your view head to the GuardianWitness Brazil assignment page. Monday night's protests As protesters took once more to the streets of Rio on Thursday night, Dom Phillips was out speaking to those marching about their cause. This video, with English translations, gives a raw view from the streets on why protesters are our in force, and encouraging others to join them. Thursday unrest Luciano Freaza captures the story from clashes with police in Salvador. Nathalie Malhado was also at this demonstration on Barris Valley, near to stadium, and filmed the moment when police try to disperse protesters. She sends this in: The crowd started to reunite at 02PM in our main square, everything were pacific with children, students, musical artists and seniors sharing the same felling: justice! For around third and half they start to walk via two different streets toward the Stadium Arena Fonte Nova. When they get close to stadium, they found a police block, that were armed with gas and with pistols with rubber bullet. Details emerged of a young man who died in Ribeir\u00e3o Preto, north in S\u00e3o Paulo state, over Thursday night. Times reporter John Simpson has been tweeting news and updates of the death and posted the link to this video posted on Facebook [WARNING: contains distressing content] Paulo Salgado captured scenes of protesters on Monday night where marches turned violent. He also sent in these images of some destroyed buildings in Rio de Janeiro from Thursday night. User duarantes captured some scenes from Thursday nights protests on Paulista street in S\u00e3o Paulo Maysa Ferreira send in this shot from Palmas, capital of Tocantins state. And here are some images of protests in Florianopolis and Fortaleza Solidarity protests across the world Brazilians in Sydney, Copenhagen, London to New York have been raising their green, yellow and gold flags in solidarity with the protesters.We have posted a selection of these images here. Why are Brazilians protesting? Here are a mix of stories from those who are out on the streets This video was being shared widely on Twitter and Facebook, with Guardian readers posting the link in comments and to GuardianWitness - in English one Brazilian director explains what she thinks are the reasons behind the protests",
  "title": "Brazil protests continue as story develops over social media",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/brazil",
    "world/protest",
    "media/social-media",
    "world/americas",
    "world/world",
    "football/world-cup-football"
  ],
  "lead": "As demonstrations continue nationwide in Brazil, we round up some of the posts on social media and GuardianWitness submissions which are telling the story as it develops",
  "id": "world/2013/jun/21/brazil-protest-social-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}