{
  "content": "The Archbishop of Canterbury has posted a blog warning Christians not to tweet their disagreements. Electronic communication, he says, lacks the human touch, and in particular the kinds of modulations of tone and the face-to-face aspects of relationships which make it possible to disagree productively. \"Social media does not show tears in the eye, a hand on the arm when saying something painful, body language that speaks of inner turmoil, deep distress \u2013 even gentle respect. It is simply there \u2013 usually forever,\" he writes. This seems at first sight ungrateful: there must be people who have turned to God because the internet made them lose their faith in humanity. On the other hand, there is no doubt that the schism in the Anglican Communion would have happened much more slowly and perhaps not at all without the help of the internet. Quite possibly the Reformation would never have caught on without the printing press, either. Nothing so promotes self-righteous outrage like the honest communication of sincerely held beliefs. What Welby recommends is a more privately authoritarian process: essentially that the church should not wash its dirty linen in public. Jesus, in Matthew's gospel, says: \"If your brother or sister sins, go and point out their fault, just between the two of you. If they listen to you, you have won them over. But if they will not listen, take one or two others along, so that 'every matter may be established by the testimony of two or three witnesses'. If they still refuse to listen, tell it to the church; and if they refuse to listen even to the church, treat them as you would a pagan or a tax collector.\" At a time when the Church of England has just managed to unite around women clergy, and is facing another decade or so of grumbling guerilla struggles over the acceptance of gay clergy, this reads more like a yearning for discipline and coherence than anything else. The trouble is that simply appealing to people to talk charitably to one another, and even about one another, does not merely offend against all the traditions of the internet. It also seems wishy-washy nonsense to the archbishop. At a recent sermon in Trinity Wall Street in New York City, supposedly the richest Anglican parish in the world, Welby said: \"The old sermons that we have heard so often in England, which I grew up with \u2013 which if you boiled them down all they effectively said was, 'Wouldn't the world be a nicer place if we were all a bit nicer?' \u2013 that is the kind of moral claptrap that Jesus does not permit us to accept.\" Welby sounds confused here but since he is by no means an idiot it's worth trying to think about what it is that makes social media destructive in a way that's slightly different to all the other ways people can hurt one another. Perhaps the most obvious is the lack of payback. Within social media, we can act like part of a crowd even without anonymity or pseudonymity. Everyone there lives in a bubble of friends for the most part, and so can be as rude as they like about outsiders. However, there is something slightly creepy about Welby's recipe for dealing with mistaken subordinates: \"Love often says if you must rebuke, then do so in person and with touch \u2013 with an arm around the shoulder and tears in your eyes that can be seen by the person being rebuked.\" That sounds to me like the housemaster who would tell the boys he beat that it would hurt him more than it hurt them. I don't think anyone ever had the nerve to offer, at that point, to swap places. None the less, it's an excellent discipline to say nothing in print or online that you would not tell the victim face-to-face, and I'll tell the archbishop that the next time I see him. I don't plan to touch his arm sympathetically as I break the news.",
  "title": "Justin Welby's Twitter sermon sounds like a plea for ecclesiastical discipline | Andrew Brown",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/justin-welby",
    "world/anglicanism",
    "world/religion",
    "world/christianity",
    "world/world",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "At a time of unrest for the church, it's no wonder the Archbishop of Canterbury doesn't want the church's dirty linen aired online",
  "id": "commentisfree/2015/jan/29/justin-welby-twitter-sermon-discipline-church-archbishop-of-canterbury",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}