{
  "content": "Tragic events unfolded yesterday as a group of British skiers became separated from two of their party in the Swiss resort of Verbier. The rescue operation took on a global perspective when members of the party - a group of UK technology entrepreneurs - used the micro-blogging site Twitter in trying to locate the missing skiers. Despite the concerted efforts of the online community and the mountain rescue teams, developments which were instantly relayed on Twitter, one of the skiers, co-founder of Dolphin Music Rob Williams died in the incident. The sad events have highlighted the ways in which online and mobile tools can be harnessed to help travellers in emergency situations. A Twitter update by one of the group, trying to find the mobile number of the second stranded skier, Dolphin Music co-founder Jason Tavaria, was re-tweeted across the site. In the following hours, a combination of GPS, Google Maps and signals returned from his iPhone may well have helped save his life - Tavaria was found alive by mountain rescue. \"On a basic level, the virality of Twitter can be crucial for crowdsourcing during emergencies,\" says Mike Butcher, editor of TechCrunch UK. \"In this instance it helped to spread the net as far as possible - anyone who was awake at the time could do what they could. In other ways, Twitter can be used as a radar; there are mobile applications for the site that can tell you exactly who is twittering within a certain radius of you.\" Twitter's potential for aiding travellers has been highlighted a number of times recently, in tracking storms across Oklahoma, helping to free American travellers from Egyptian jails, and most notably in up-to-the-minute alerts advising tourists in the vicinity of the Mumbai attacks. Although details are still unclear, it seems that one of the most crucial elements of Tavaria's rescue may have been the ability to use Google Maps on his mobile phone. \"It seems that the lost skiers were able to generate a latitude and longitude of their position before sending it back to the group, who then passed it on to mountain rescue,\" says Keir Clarke, editor of the Google Maps Mania blog. \"Mobile phones are all basically GPS units now, and can certainly help travellers if they are lost, or in an emergency situation.\" \u2022 Twenty top Twitter applications by TechCrunch \u2022 How to put Google Maps on your phone",
  "title": "Twitter: the new emergency tool for travellers",
  "lead": "Yesterday's ski tragedy in Verbier has highlighted the ways in which online and mobile tools can be harnessed to help stricken travellers",
  "tags": [
    "travel/travel",
    "technology/twitter",
    "travel/travellingsolo"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "travel/2009/mar/04/twitter-travelling-solo-emergency-safety",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}