{
  "content": "Lawyers representing Ashworth secure hospital have written to the journalist who leaked the medical records of Moors murderer Ian Brady to the Daily Mirror, asking him to disclose the identity of his source. The hospital wants freelance reporter Robin Ackroyd, who acted as an intermediary in passing details of a log of events on Brady's ward at the hospital to the Mirror, to reveal the name and details of the person who provided him with the confidential medical information. But Ackroyd, who came forward last Friday after the House of Lords ruled the newspaper must reveal his identity, has said he would stand firm if Ashworth tried to force him to disclose his sources. \"As a freelance writer, I investigated the Moors murderer's hunger strike and passed the information, which came from my own confidential journalistic sources, to the Daily Mirror,\" Ackroyd wrote in the Mirror. \"I'm going public because I am prepared to fight if Ashworth decides to take me to court. I don't want a legal battle. But I am prepared to make a stand, just as any reputable journalist would. \"Journalists cannot expect people to come forward with information in confidence if we do not keep those confidences. I do not reveal confidential sources of information.\" Ashworth's lawyers have also written to the Mirror's solicitors asking them to comply with a court order that the paper should produce a witness statement explaining the circumstances by which they acquired the records. In December 1999 the Mirror published an article containing verbatim extracts from Brady's medical records, when the killer was on hunger strike in protest at being moved to another ward. Last month five law lords ordered the Mirror to reveal the identity of the go-between who supplied the documents to the paper. The paper did not know the name of the original source, believed to be an Ashworth employee. They ruled that the person who took the confidential information from the hospital's database acted in breach of confidence and contract. They added that when the Mirror accepted the data, the paper became involved in the wrongdoing. Giving judgment, the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, admitted: \"Any disclosure of a journalist's sources does have a chilling effect on the freedom of the press.\" However, he added that medical records must always be kept confidential and this was even more important in the case of Ashworth secure hospital, where Brady is being treated. Lord Woolf described the hospital as a place \"fraught with difficulty and danger\".",
  "title": "Ashworth asks for Brady source",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/ian-brady"
  ],
  "lead": "8.30am: Lawyers representing Ashworth secure hospital have written to the journalist who leaked the medical records of Moors murderer Ian Brady to the Daily Mirror, asking him to disclose the identity of his source. By Ciar Byrne",
  "id": "media/2002/jul/02/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}