{
  "content": "Tip 0ne: Don't \"fakebook\" Sometimes it can feel as if the internet's a giant stage and we're all searching around for roles to play. The temptation to fake it on social media can be huge, especially when we're constantly being bombarded with how perfect our lives should be. But faking it always leaves you feeling hollow inside. So keep your online profiles real. Write an \"about\" byline that allows your true self to shine through every syllable. Choose a profile picture that celebrates your true self rather than the wonders of two hours in hair and make-up and a good old Instagram filter. But also remember that your online profile is a window into you and your life. Who would you like looking through that window and how much would you like them to see? Adjust your privacy settings and what you share accordingly. Don't give too much of yourself away. Tip two: Before posting anything ask, how will this make people feel? Is what you have to say or share funny, inspirational or informative? We all know a Status McGlum, whose feeds are one endless rant \u2013 and we've all hidden or deleted those people too. Spiteful comments, angry updates and pictures of animals or humans being tortured don't add anything to the world. Create a positive online presence \u2013 the kind that people want to see and like and share. And when in doubt ask \"how will this make people feel\" and only post if the answer is positive. Tip three: Don't believe the hype One of the worst things about online life can be the temptation to compare yourself to others, especially when those others appear to have been beamed straight down from Planet Perfect. We all know those people who are constantly humble-bragging about their perfect lives and perfect homes and perfect partners and please don't get me started on their perfect selfies. But the important thing to remember is that it isn't real. No-one has a perfect life so those who pretend they do are faking. And usually this is because deep down things are far from perfect and they aren't happy at all. Tip four: Avoid falling down the rabbit hole We've all been there. It's late at night and you're feeling bone-tired but you think \"I'll just check Facebook before I go to bed\". Fast forward two hours and you're frantically flicking through photos of your best friend's ex-boyfriend's sister's niece. You don't know why but hey, you lost all reason an hour ago. Welcome to the social media rabbit hole, a warren of profiles and pictures and updates that leaves you staring bug-eyed at the screen, muttering, \"Just one more click. Just one more click\". If this happens to you try setting yourself an internet curfew for at least half an hour before you want to go to bed. Spend that time unwinding, listening to music or reading a book. And if the temptation for \"just one more click\" strikes, step away from the internet and remind yourself of how crappy you felt the last time you fell down the hole. Tip five: Don't be passive aggressive \"Certain people should watch what they're saying\". \"I can't believe some people\". \"I know what you're up to you know\". Welcome to the world of the passive aggressive update. It can be very tempting to post one of these oh-so-slightly menacing comments, especially if someone has really peed you off, but please don't. The chances are the person your comment is aimed at won't even see it and you'll just end up even more frustrated. It's far better to message the person concerned direct and get it off your chest without resorting to the tone of a ransom note made from cut up newspaper. You'll feel way better about yourself too. Tip six: Block and delete the bullies and haters One of the best things about the internet is the people it brings you into contact with. Sadly, this can be one of the worst things too. If you stick to tip number two on this list you shouldn't encounter many, if any, bullies or haters but if you do, let \"block and delete\" become your mantra. Don't engage with the idiots. Don't feed the troll. Just block and delete them, make sure your privacy settings are on high and carry on with your life. If it does all get a bit much, take a break. Sometimes it can feel as if twitter and facebook are the entire world but actually they're not. I like to picture twitter as a big room where people go to shout a lot \u2013 you can close the door on it anytime you like by simply turning off your notifications and signing out of your account for a while. Tip seven: Remember that famous people have feelings too Thanks to the internet it's never been so easy to contact well-known people and this can be a fantastic thing; I've loved the opportunity twitter has given me to thank some of my favourite writers. But sometimes it can all go horribly wrong. Once a well-known internet wind-up merchant tweeted something massively disrespectful about someone who'd just died. I immediately fired off an angry tweet, telling her in no uncertain terms what I thought of her. But the truth is, I don't know her at all. I don't know what unhappiness might have caused her to act in that way and my tweet did nothing to change the situation, it only added to the hate. The fact is, famous people have feelings too and we never know what's going on behind the scenes in their lives or what they might be going through. Tip eight: Avoid the temptation to stalk Stalking another person's profile never, ever makes you feel better about yourself. Social media makes it so easy to snoop into the lives of others but all it does is make you feel sleasy. There's an old saying: \"people who listen at keyholes never hear good of themselves\" that can be adapted for perfectly for this: \"People who snoop around Facebook never feel good about themselves\". Tip nine: Be selfie confident not selfie conscious With every pic of Kim Kardashian's butt or Rihanna's pout there's more pressure on us to present a perfect image of ourselves to the world \u2013 but without the help of the team of stylists and air-brushers celebs have on call. A great way to ensure you post selfies with confidence is to check in with how each picture makes you feel. If it makes you smile and feel good about yourself then post away. If it makes you feel self-conscious or uncomfortable in any way, delete. Simple. Tip 10: You don't need to get \"verified\" to feel validated It's very easy to get sucked into thinking that the size of your friends or followers list somehow reflects your worth. It doesn't. Ultimately the online world isn't real. It doesn't matter how many online friends you have. Having a blue tick by your name doesn't make you a better person. The joy and passion and kindness you bring to the world makes you a better person. If you build your happiness on the likes and adds of strangers, it's like building on shifting sand and it could disappear at any moment. Focus on the positivity you bring to the online world and what you get from it will take care of itself. True Face by Siobhan Curham is being published 2 April 2015, and you can preorder on the Guardian bookshop. Siobhan is looking for teenage contributors to the True Face website. You can find out more at here. You can download a poster of the True Face Creed.",
  "title": "Top 10 tips for keeping it real online",
  "lead": "Ever feel under pressure from the 'perfection police?' Siobhan Curham, author of the groundbreaking guide to modern life for teenagers True Face, has put together these brilliant tips on how to be real on social media",
  "tags": [
    "books/booksforchildrenandteenagers",
    "books/books",
    "culture/culture",
    "books/teen-books",
    "books/childrens-non-fiction",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "childrens-books-site/2015/mar/22/top-10-tips-for-keeping-it-real-online",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}