{
  "content": "Yesterday, as Techcrunch's Michael Arrington was leaving the DLD conference venue in Munich, one of the conference attendees walked up to him and spat in his face. I'll say that again. One of the attendees. Walked up to him. And spat. In. His. Face. And then without a word, the attacker turned on his patent leather heel and vanished back into the crowd. Arrington blogged about the incident later, revealing that this is far from the first time that someone \u2013 usually an entrepreneur who objects to his coverage of their startup \u2013 has attacked him verbally or physically. On one occasion police considered a threat so serious that he had to pay for private security for himself, his family and the Techcrunch staff. The reaction to the revelation among most bloggers and online commentators has been a mixture of shock and revulsion. And yet, while I shared their outrage, I couldn't bring myself to echo their surprise, for reasons that began at the same venue 24 hours earlier... \"Oh man, I have to shake your hand.\" Barely had I set foot in the conference centre and put my name tag around my neck when I was accosted by an enthusiastic Spaniard. \"As you wish,\" I replied, extending my hand to meet his. \"it's very nice to meet you.\" A total stranger insisting on welcoming me! What a friendly conference DLD is! But no. The Spaniard continued: \"Yeah, I loved how you trashed Le Web in your column the other week.\" A British man standing a few feet away from us had overheard the conversation and, as it turned out, he wanted to shake my hand too. \"You wrote that Le Web column? Ha! Nice one. I hope you don't run in to Loic LeMeur here.\" \"Er, thanks,\" I said, \"but I didn't trash it. I was just complaining about the wireless.\" \"And the cold,\" added the Spaniard, helpfully. \"Ok, and the cold. But...\" \"And the food.\" I tried to explain that because my deadline for filing the column had fallen at the end of the first day of Le Web, I hadn't had a chance to say how much better day two had been, both in terms of temperature and in the quality of panels and speakers. Yes, the lack of Wi-Fi was pretty unforgivable and I still don't understand what speakers like Paulo Coelho brought to the technology party, but at the same time I would have thought it was pretty obvious that my rambling words weren't supposed to be a complete journalistic review of the event. That would be the job of an actual, you know, journalist. And yet my new pan-European friends were having none of it. \"I can't wait to see what you say about DLD! It's going to suck, right?\" Yeah, I felt like replying, I flew back from San Francisco to be here and am paying for my own hotel room \u2013 fingers crossed it's a total waste of fucking time. It seems recently that I've developed a reputation for hating things. In San Francisco at least four people I met complimented me for writing about hating Second Life. In Las Vegas a man high-fived me for having co-organised Smack My Pitch Up, a snarky event on the fringe of September's Techcrunch 50 conference. And nearly a year on, I still get total strangers coming up to me at events congratulating me for the parody I wrote of Sarah Lacy's interview with Mark Zuckerberg at South By South West. A parody, by the way, that was the single biggest driver of traffic to my site last year. Forgotten is the fact that I later took down the post (hence the lack of a link), disgusted by how quickly online criticism turned from harsh but justifiable coverage of a professional performance to sickeningly personal attacks on a damn good journalist who had one bad gig for reasons that weren't her fault. Forgotten is the fact that Sarah and I have since become good friends and I've written countless glowing reviews of her book, as well as co-hosting her trip to London last year. Forgotten, basically, is everything except for the nastiness. Back at DLD, the day after my curious encounter with the Spanish and Brit fanboys, I ran in Loic LeMeur and his wife, Geraldine. I'd never actually met Loic, but after Le Web we'd \"enjoyed\" some semi-good-natured banter on Twitter, culminating in us agreeing that at some point we should probably have a coffee. Clearly he had taken the Le Web review in the spirit I'd intended and DLD was as good a time as any for us to bury the professional hatchet, right? Perhaps not. As I sat down in the seat next to him, I noticed he had his laptop open. He was Googling my name. \"I'm just searching for your column this week where you trash DLD before it's even finished.\" Touch\u00e9. Fortunately our awkward encounter was cut short when Loic had to go on stage for a panel about \"Telling Stories\". One of his fellow panelists was Julia Allison, the infamous lifecaster and co-founder of nonsociety.com. I've only met Julia a couple of times, but on both occasions have been struck by the difference between how she is in person and how she's portrayed online (Radar Magazine once called her the fourth most-hated person on the internet and a quick Google of her name will bring up page after page of snarky abuse about almost every aspect of her personality and career). Sure she's pretty, and sure she can be incredibly \u2013 and annoyingly \u2013 girly at times, but she's also smart, tech-savvy and funny \u2013 traits which, as she pointed out on the panel (to a smattering of applause) needn't be mutually exclusive. It was an impressive performance both from Julia and from Loic, who showed how his company, Seesmic, uses video to make anonymous commenting almost impossible. And yet no sooner had I Twittered that Julia was on the panel than I received a public reply from a stranger asking \"is JA as annoying as we think she is?\". They clearly expected me to respond in the affirmative. After all, being a prick is what I *do*. Now, of course, I realise I'm being incredibly disingenuous. My reputation for being a prick is far from unfounded. And the truth is I really enjoy being mean. It's much, much easier to make jokes about how bad something is than how good it is. Compare the Daily Show's coverage of George Bush with it's puzzlement over how to handle Barack Obama. Compare how funny the Guardian's own Charlie Brooker is when he's hating on a reality show than when he's gushing over The (bloody) Wire. But, as in all things, balance \u2013 and perspective \u2013 is vital. And that is precicely where the internet has a problem. What we read on the web is shaped almost entirely by what our friends recommend to us or what other people have decided is popular. And because what's popular is meanness, that almost all that we read \u2013 page after page of cynicism, meanness, ranting and rage. Don't believe me? My negative Second Life column attracted 42 comments. My bitchy Le Web one, 28. Last week, by contrast, I wrote about how inspired I was by Barack Obama's inauguration. Number of comments: none. Both the Second Life and Le Web columns made it to the top of the \"top technology stories of the last 24 hours\" list on theguardian.com. I'd be surprised if the Obama column even troubled the top 50. In cyberspace, no one wants to hear you unless you scream. Which brings me back to Arrington and my lack of surprise at the vile incident at DLD, or at some of the other hideous threats he's received. Having been repeatedly hailed for being a bastard and entirely ignored for being nice; having read the vile abuse aimed at Sarah and Julia and countless other women who dare to showcase their abilities online; having seen the glee with which sites like Valleywag tear apart the personal lives of internet personalities \u2013 and having seen no popular positive counterbalance to any of it \u2013 I am absolutely unsurprised that the hate has finally spilled over into real life. You simply can't have a system which rewards nastiness over niceness and which offers no consequences for those who commit cowardly anonymous attacks and then act surprised when people don't know where to draw the line. And if it carries on, someone is going to get seriously hurt, unless we all say \u2013 as Arrington has on Techcrunch today \u2013 enough is enough. So let's all say it right now. Let's all of us who consider ourselves human beings and who want the internet to continue as a forum for free and frank debate get together and decide on a few rules of engagement. It strikes me that there are a few we can all agree on... There's a brilliant episode of The West Wing where Sam Seaborn discovers that two of his staff have anonymously attacked a Republican aide working at the White House. Furious, Seaborn confronts the culprits, saying: \"You know what, fellas, when I say something, I sign my name.\" Sure enough, he grabs a pen and paper and scribbles the message \"you're fired \u2013 Sam Seaborn\". Surely that's rule number one \u2013 the Seaborn Rule of internet commenting: If you've got something to say online, say it in your own name or fuck off. Second \u2013 enough with the ad hominems. Yes it's funny to get personal \u2013 even yesterday I couldn't resist Twittering that Mark Zuckerberg, the surprise guest at DLD, looked a bit like Kermit The Frog as he perched on the edge of his chair. He did. But you know what, I wouldn't have said that if I'd ever met him, which makes me at best a hypocrite, and at worst a coward. I'm going to stop that kind of bullshit. If I want to get personal about someone I don't know, I'll save it for private emails and chat. Third \u2013 balance. Look at your blog posts, your Twitter updates and anything else you post publicly. Even if you're as big a cynic as me, if the ratio of mean to nice/neutral is much worse than 3:1 then you're part of the problem. Fourth \u2013 make your own judgements. Just because you read online that someone is annoying, or stupid, or boring doesn't make it true of them. But believing it without doing some independent research does make it true of you. Fifth \u2013 and this one isn't a suggestion. If you've ever considered spitting on someone because you don't like something they've said online, kill yourself. Seriously. Do it now. The world will be a better place without you. So, there you go. The beginnings of a line in the sand and a chance to prove that just because what you say is sometimes positive, doesn't mean it can't also be popular. Now, who's with me? Anyone? Hello? Wait, where did everyone go? \u2022 Paul Carr is author of Bringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs at paulcarr.com.",
  "title": "Not safe for work:  If you can't say anything nice, kill yourself, says Paul Carr",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/wifi",
    "technology/secondlife",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/blogging"
  ],
  "lead": "Not safe for work: Episode 12, in which Paul Carr decides to stop the hate before somebody gets hurt",
  "id": "technology/2009/jan/28/not-safe-for-work-techcrunch-arrington",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}