{
  "content": "Good week for... Raj Shah. The USAid administrator was in Myanmar this week to help deliver the first litre of clean drinking water under a Global Development Alliance between his agency and Procter and Gamble Michael Bloomberg. The former mayor of New York was appointed as UN special envoy for cities and climate change Bad week for... Li Dongsheng. On Monday China's vice-minister of public security was sacked. According to the BBC, Mr Li was placed under investigation for \"serious disciplinary violations\", usually a reference to corruption. Lamido Sanusi. Not one to shy away from controversy, the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria who was ousted last week for \"financial recklessness and misconduct\" on Wednesday, 26 February, sued president Gooodluck Jonathan over his suspension. The week in numbers $410bn: The amount sent in remittances by migrant workers in 2013. The figure from a new IMF report, confirms that the diaspora send home more than three times the amount paid in official development assistance and for many economies, remittances exceed 10% of GDP. $69bn: The cost of natural disasters in China, according to official data published on Monday. $300m is needed to fund 60,000 new homes in Sri Lanka. Only 32% of respondents to a UNHCR survey in the north of the country have permanent homes, a consequence of the civil war that ended in 2009. 400,000: The people displaced by conflict between the government and Sunni rebels in Iraq's Anbar province 2,200 African migrants have accepted \"voluntary departure\" from Israel, though according to Irin, \"the voluntariness of the procedure has been called into question by migrant rights organisations\". 19 confirmed deaths from swine flu in Syria Picture of the week: Milestone Fairtrade Foundation turns 20. Nick Dearden says in this op-ed for the Guardian that \"much has been achieved, but much more needs to be done\". GSMA and Facebook announce ICT initiative. At the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, the social network and the association of mobile operators announced a new joint project to connect the billions of men and women globally who currently have no access to internet-based communications services. What you're saying: The news that the government of Uganda has passed an anti-homosexuality bill, despite outcry from the international community and activists, got many in our community talking. Dear Uganda, a country where over 5000 women are raped per year on average, I propose we ban all forms of sex to save ourselves! - Rosebell Kagumire On the World Bank's decision to postpone a loan to the country, Oliver Nkunzimana said: Multimedia Global development reading list: Inequalities and the essential role of fair taxation - Christian Aid Ending newborn deaths - Save the Children 10 things not to do with climate aid - ODI Now, your turn... Our weekly round-up is admittedly just the tip of the iceberg. Get in touch to tell us what story of the last week most moved you or impacts your work. Press officers, add globaldevpros@theguardian.com to your mailing lists or email us about upcoming reports and new hires at your organisation. Join the community of global development professionals and experts. Become a GDPN member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox",
  "title": "World in a week: @gdnglobaldevpro's new weekly round-up starts with Facebook/GSMA partnership",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "global-development-professionals-network/global-development-professionals-network",
    "global-development-professionals-network/professional-development",
    "world/world",
    "society/charities",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/mobile-world-congress",
    "global-development/fair-trade",
    "world/china",
    "world/uganda",
    "world/syria"
  ],
  "lead": "Get up to speed with our new weekly round-up of the latest development and humanitarian news",
  "id": "global-development-professionals-network/2014/feb/28/world-in-a-week-24-28-february-2014",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}