{
  "content": "The US State Department has launched a web application, Opinion Space, that solicits views and input on US foreign policy. The site was launched at the Alliance of Youth Movements summit in London. Instead of a virtual suggestion box, users respond to comments by moving a slider showing gauging your view ranging from strongly disagree to strongly agree. For the launch, Opinion Space explores five topics, the threat posed by nuclear weapons in the hands of terrorists, the role of empowering women in terms of development, \"proactive diplomacy\", food security and climate change. Users can also leave an idea and suggestions for follow up for Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. The topics will change every month. The initial topics are broad, but in the coming months, the questions will \"drill down\" into issues including those that might relate to upcoming trips by Secretary Clinton, said Ari Wallach, founder of consultancy studioBenZion which was involved with the launch strategy of the site and developing the topics and questions. Secretary Clinton said: \"Opinion Space is an example of 21st Century Statecraft, where connection technologies can encourage open dialogue and engagement. My staff and I look forward to listening to the opinions and ideas the Opinion Space participants provide and vote on.\" What is 21st Century Statecraft (for those of us who don't have a degree in international relations)? In the past, Wallach said that diplomacy was often \"two people in suits over Scotch talking about how they were going to do this or that vis a vis the other country\". In Secretary Clinton's vision, 21st Century statecraft means that foreign relations isn't just government-to-government but also government-to-people, people-to-people and people-to-government, \"a new matrix of how we interact with one another\". Developed with the Centre for New Media at the University of California Berkeley, the site designers hope that contributors will not only add interesting views but also filter the best ones. Once you've added your views, you are charted in what looks almost like a star chart. It's a very impressionistic mapping of your views. \"This map is not based on geography or predetermined categories, but on similarity of opinion,\" said UC Professor and Berkeley Centre for New Media director Ken Goldberg. \"It's designed to 'depolarise' discussions by including all participants on a level playing field.\" Wallach said that they thought a lot about ways to create incentive systems as opposed to \"unintelligent, unenlightening, debate flame wars\". Also, once you've left your views and comments, you can then see the views and comments of others and again, using a slider, say whether you strongly agree or disagree with the comment and whether you found the comment insightful. The site also lists the top authors and reviewers. You can see other views and see how they relate to one another. This is not just an information gathering tool for the State Department, it's also an information gathering tool for everyone who uses it, Wallach said. People answer the questions but in testing the site, they saw people spending 20 to 40 minutes exploring other views. It's an experiment and they hope to refine this over the years, he said. \"In line with the technological aesthetic of the day, don't wait for something to be perfect. Put it out there. See how it works and how it doesn't work. Refine along the way.\"",
  "title": "US State Department launches site to gather views on US foreign policy",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "politics/foreignpolicy",
    "us-news/hillary-clinton"
  ],
  "lead": "The US State Department has launched a web application to gather and map the views of citizens and those abroad about US foreign policy",
  "id": "technology/blog/2010/mar/12/socialnetworking-foreignpolicy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}