{
  "content": "MySpace has joined forces with online recruitment site Simply Hired to launch what it claims will be the UK's largest online jobs channel. The deal is expected to feed around 1m job ads to the local UK version of MySpace. Simply Hired aggregates and indexes job adverts from several thousand sources including classified ads, online job boards and company recruitment pages. The deal is an extension of a similar partnership in the US, where Simply Hired aggregates around 5m job adverts for the social networking website. MySpace claimed the service would create the biggest online database of recruitment adverts in the UK. Reed lists around 344,000 jobs, Monster 76,000 and Fish4jobs 53,000. The Simply Hired director of marketing and communications, Lucas Mast, said he expected the number of jobs on the Myspace UK website to rise to 2m by the end of 2007. \"What we found in the US is that users are passionate about MySpace,\" he added. \"They go there for music, for comedy or to talk to friends and spend so much time on the site that the community really feels comfortable using this as a trusted source for jobs. Jobs are a natural next step because it is such a sticky environment.\" Mr Mast said that although MySpace's audience is typically young, the UK site is growing rapidly and the user base is likely to become more diverse. He said the jobs channel will create revenue by featuring display ads and advertisers will also be able to pay for a higher profile \"sponsored ad\" for selected jobs. Peter Zollman, the founding principal of the Classified Intelligence consultancy, said an aggregation site was a good way for MySpace to quickly develop an extensive inventory of job ads. \"But long term it is tough for me to be convinced that there is a rock solid business model around aggregating job ads and classifieds, and relying heavily on contextual ads for revenue,\" he added. MySpace parent company News Corp was one of a group of investors that backed Simply Hired with a combined $17.7m (\u00a39m) of funding in April 2006. News Corp has one seat on the Simply Hired executive board. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "MySpace moves into job ads",
  "lead": "10.15am: MySpace has joined forces with Simply Hired to offer an online jobs channel. By Jemima Kiss",
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/myspace",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2007/apr/30/digitalmedia.myspace",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}