{
  "content": "So finally the battle is over and we have won. Theresa May has announced that my son, Gary McKinnon, will not be extradited. It is difficult to express what all this means to us. It seems hard to believe that more than 10 years have passed since Gary was arrested for allegedly hacking into Nasa and Pentagon computers. During that time, repeated attempts have been made to extradite him to the US and send him to jail for an offence which, we were told at the time by the High-Tech Crime Unit, would have been likely to receive a sentence of about six months of community service had the case been heard in the UK. Gary, who has Asperger's syndrome, was arrested in London in March 2002. He was suppressed by the authorities after exploring his way through Nasa and Pentagon computer systems, to see whether or not any evidence had been found of UFOs and free energy. Admittedly, he left cheeky messages about the lax security in the system and added that American foreign policy was akin to state-sponsored terrorism, the sort of remark that countless politicians and commentators \u2013 including many in the US \u2013 have made many, many times, most recently over the use of drones. Who knew that these throwaway remarks would lead to what has become an international cause celebre, a subject for two prime ministers, David Cameron and Gordon Brown, to raise with the US president, a campaign that has crossed political boundaries and a topic that has generated millions of words in newspapers and hours of television coverage? Gary has never denied doing what he did. All he and his ever-growing number of supporters have asked for is that the punishment should fit the crime. Why should a British citizen who committed a minor offence in a house in Wood Green, north London \u2013 an offence involving no violence or danger or real harm beyond the understandable embarrassment of the people responsible for computer security in the Pentagon and Nasa \u2013 not be tried at a magistrates court close to where the alleged offence took place? Why did so many US officials exaggerate the importance of the case, one of them even saying he wanted to see Gary \"fry\"? Last month, I wrote an open letter to the prime minister and the home secretary. I told them that, as a result of the possible extradition hanging over him, Gary hardly ever leaves home. The boy I knew who composed music and sang, who cycled and swam and enjoyed life, has been spending much of the time in his room in the dark. In this way, he has already served a longer sentence than a violent criminal would have received, all for tapping on a keyboard in his bedroom. It has been a decade during which there have been many false dawns. There have been times when it seemed like the nightmare was over and our spirits have been raised only to come crashing down as yet another hurdle was put in the way of Gary's freedom. I remember being moved to tears when President Obama said that an appropriate solution to the case would finally be found. One good thing that has come out of all this is the realisation that Gary enjoys almost universal support whenever people hear the details of his case. After my letter to Cameron and May was published by the Guardian, more than 400 people contacted me, almost all expressing their support and sympathy. Military personnel in the US have even said that, far from prosecuting Gary, he should be employed by the American authorities to help them patch up their security systems, as has happened in the past when hackers have been apprehended. Only today, Gary's MP, David Burrowes, said he would resign from the government if the extradition went ahead. Many other politicians on all sides of the house have also nailed their flag to our mast and that has been of great comfort. So the battle has been won and a long shadow lifted from us. Many others have been affected by these extradition laws. Gary knows that what he has been through has finally led to a change in the way that people will be treated in the future, and so his long struggle has not been in vain.",
  "title": "My son Gary McKinnon has won justice at last | Janis Sharp",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/gary-mckinnon",
    "politics/theresamay",
    "law/law",
    "politics/politics",
    "world/world",
    "uk/uk",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "us-news/us-national-security",
    "law/extradition",
    "law/criminal-justice",
    "law/human-rights",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/technology",
    "science/nasa"
  ],
  "lead": "Janis Sharp: Theresa May's decision not to extradite Gary to the US on computer hacking charges is a victory for common sense",
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/oct/16/son-gary-mcinnon-justice-at-last",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}