{
  "content": "A viral Instagram trend from 2015, #2015bestnine, has been revealed as a trojan horse for a new dating site which launched with 130,000 inaugural members culled from the 15 million Instagrammers who took part in the trend. Over the dying days of last year, the hashtag took off on the site, with users entering their username into 2015bestnine.com to get a mosaic of their nine most popular pictures posted on the image-sharing service. The site didn't give any further details about who was behind it, but for users who had entered their email address, a mail-out was sent a few days later offering the chance to opt in to Nine, a \"match-making app\" launching in early January. Users who didn't opt in to the app weren't signed up, and many instagrammers, especially at the tail end of the trend, found their \"Best Nine\" using copycat sites which asked for no personal information at all. Nonetheless, according to Buzzfeed News, 130,000 people signed up to Nine. The app was created by two Japanese entrepreneurs, Yusuke Matsumura and Mai Sekiguchi, and mimics the high-speed filtering of services such as Tinder and Bumble. But rather than being focused on one main picture, it's built around the same nine-image mosaic as the viral trend that Matsumura and Sekiguchi created. The misdirection didn't sit well with those who had used the site to build a mosaic of their own best pictures, but it made Nine join a long history of dating apps that have gained critical mass as an offshoot of another project. Most notably, OKCupid, one of the largest dating sites on the internet, started its life as a side-project to The Spark, the study guide website that eventually became SparkNotes. As well as study guides, the site contained a number of personality quizzes and games, and the feature that would eventually become OKCupid began life as SparkMatch, which let Spark users contact others with similar results on the personality tests. Similarly, dating site Twoo claims 180m users, many of whom are there because the site began life as the Q&amp;A-based social network Formspring, initially rebranded as Spring.me and then fully overhauled to become a dating site.",
  "title": "'#2015bestnine' Instagram craze was trojan horse for dating service",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/instagram",
    "technology/technology",
    "lifeandstyle/online-dating",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle"
  ],
  "lead": "Users who entered email addresses received offer to opt in to 'match-making app' Nine, launched January 2016",
  "id": "technology/2016/feb/02/2015bestnine-instagram-craze-trojan-horse-dating-service",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}