{
  "content": "SPORTING MEMORIES Using sport to help people with dementia Piloted in 15 care homes in Leeds, Sporting Memories uses sports images, reports and memorabilia to stimulate conversation among older people with dementia and now runs more than 80 groups in the UK. sportingmemoriesnetwork.com NHS CHANGE DAY A day of pledges for NHS improvement Established by a Twitter conversation among NHS staff in 2012, this grassroots movement designates a day in March to make pledges big and small to improve the service. More than 800,000 were made this year. changeday.nhs.uk FRONTLINE Training graduates to become social workers Former teacher Josh MacAlister founded Frontline in 2013 to encourage graduates into social work. The two-year training course \u2013 the first one started this summer \u2013 aims to change the lives of vulnerable children living in London and Manchester. thefrontline.org.uk WIKIHOUSE Designing and printing houses Develops hardware and software for people to design, download and \"print\" houses and components that can be assembled with a minimum amount of skill or training. Individuals can make donations to fund whichever aspect of the process they are interested in. wikihouse.cc OOMPH! WELLNESS Improving life for the elderly with exercise Oomph! stands for Our Organisation Makes People Happy! Set up three years ago in Scarborough by Ben Allen with the aim of making exercise classes fun for older people, they currently have more than 100,000 participants in London. oomph-wellness.org CODERDOJO SCOTLAND Free coding clubs for young people Aims to teach young people between seven and 17 how to code, develop websites, apps, programs, games and much more in a sociable environment. coderdojoscotland.com GOOD FOR NOTHING Helping to accelerate change The Good for Nothing community, established in the UK in 2010 and now present in countries around the world, brings together thinkers, doers and makers online and through regular collaborative events. goodfornothing.com CASSEROLE CLUB Tackling loneliness and malnutrition Established in 2011 to help people share extra portions of home-cooked food with others who might not be able to cook for themselves \u2013 80% of diners are over the age of 80. casseroleclub.com BREATHE AHR Improving health through art A social enterprise from Guy's and St Thomas' Charity, it was set up in 2012 by Yvonne Farquharson with the aim of designing innovative ways of using the arts and creativity in healthcare to boost the health of patients. breatheahr.org VOLUNTEER IT YOURSELF Teaching the young building skills Encourages young volunteers to take responsibility for the upkeep and management of youth clubs, gaining vocational accreditations leading to apprenticeship opportunities with local employers. They've refurbished 59 buildings in the UK, and 1,047 young people have earned a City and Guilds qualification. volunteerityourself.org HOME WORK PLAY Sustainable design for first-time buyers A London crowdfunding enterprise of architects, solicitors, engineers and builders that builds flats indexed at local wages as opposed to market prices. It currently has building projects in Clapham, Hackney and Tooting Bec. homeworkplay.com BOX CHICKEN A healthy street food campaign The project sells peri-peri chicken as a low-fat alternative to fried chicken to schoolchildren via mobile kitchens in Newham, London. wearewhatwedo.org/portfolio/chicken-shop CARE CHARTS UK Helping carers and those they care for Created in July 2010 by Zoe Harris of Horsham in West Sussex, whose husband was in the final stages of dementia and about to go into care. The charts' symbols aid communication between patient and carer and are particularly useful when the patient can no longer communicate their needs for themselves. carechartsuk.co.uk YEAR HERE Graduate social leadership programme Helps graduates with leadership potential to develop their skills and links them up with companies with a social responsibility remit. Has teamed up with the Cabinet Office, Age Concern, Centre Point and the YMCA. yearhere.org FIGSHARE Free public platform for data and research Enables users to upload research and share it. Founded in 2011 by Dr Mark Hahnel, who recognised that the bulk of his work was not available to the wider research community. figshare.com BIG GREEN GAP YEAR A living wage for gap-year volunteers A University of Gloucestershire student union initiative, this offers green work placements to school leavers. On completion, students will receive a fee waiver of up to \u00a34,500. bit.ly/1vMP2zg THE SEVERN PROJECT Employment for recovering addicts A Bristol-based initiative that produces and delivers salad to restaurants and shops, providing jobs and training for those recovering from substance abuse or with mental health issues. It has created urban farms to promote ecological diversity. thesevernproject.org STREETBANK Sharing skills with neighbours As well as reducing consumption and waste, Streetbank is a way of sharing and lending useful skills or items within a community. Sam Stephens founded the non-profit firm in 2010, and it now has almost 40,000 members worldwide. streetbank.com CAMPAIGN BOOTCAMP Campaigning skills for marginalised people Campaign Bootcamp teaches young people the technical and campaign skills they need to make change within their communities and organisations. The company actively supports women, people with disabilities and people of marginalised cultures, faiths and ethnicities. campaignbootcamp.org SUPER KITCHEN Promoting healthy eating and food foraging Founded by Nottingham single mother Marsha Smith, the cafe helps families eat a decent meal together a day made out of fresh ingredients, using surplus supermarket and local produce. thesecretkitchencafe.com FAIR TAX Promoting corporate tax responsibility The fair tax mark is a label for firms and groups that are good taxpayers. The mark shows consumers the firms they can trust to help them spend their money where it counts. fairtaxmark.net ELIOT HIGGINS Founder of the Brown Moses blog The Brown Moses blog began in March 2012 by covering the Syrian conflict. Higgins uses video footage, satellite images and eyewitness reports on social media to find stories from around the world. His analysis is often cited by the press and human rights groups. brown-moses.blogspot.co.uk REAL JUNK FOOD PROJECT Turning unwanted food into cafe meals Adam Smith's Leeds project, created in 2013, tackles food waste from shops and supermarkets by turning it into meals for a cafe, staffed by volunteers, where customers pay what they think their meal is worth. therealjunkfoodproject.co.uk IAN THOMAS Children's services director, Derbyshire council Thomas's missions have included opening the service to include more communication with young people, and work to include more creativity in the system. He has improved educational outcomes for children in care and plans to further his work nationally. PEEK VISION Testing eyes anywhere in the world A team of ophthalmologists, engineers, business experts and software developers has created an affordable and portable smartphone-based system to conduct eye examinations \u2013 from surgeries to patients' homes, even in the remotest of settings. peekvision.org SLEEPIO Teaching sleep improvement without pills Founded by sleep expert Professor Colin Espie and former insomnia sufferer Peter Hame, this website provides a range of tools and expert information on the science behind insomnia, exploring everything from the body clock to REM sleep and snoring to melatonin. sleepio.com DO NATION Donating by doing This firm encourages people to donate action rather than cash. It works with individuals, companies and universities to encourage friends, employees and students to make environmentally friendly pledges in their everyday lives via its website. thedonation.org.uk ROOTLESS GARDEN Caring for the elderly through gardening Nadia Daghistani and Indie Shergill set up temporary gardens in care homes around London to engage with elderly people who have dementia. rootlessgarden.strikingly.com GRAVITY LIGHT Generating light from gravity Seeking to provide affordable light sources for the developing world, Jim Reeves and Martin Riddiford designed a device that generates light by using a descending weight. It launches next year. gravitylight.org BIO-BEAN Recycling coffee grounds into biofuels Established this year by Benjamin Harriman and Arthur Kay, this processes more than 30,000 tonnes of coffee waste and turns it into pellets that can be used to power buildings and vehicles, reducing carbon admissions and dependency on conventional fuels. bio-bean.com LEEDS DATA MILL Open data platform for Leeds businesses Created by open data expert Mark Barrett in 2013 with the aim of creating a new generation of data-driven citizens and businesses, saving time, cost and resources. An iPhone app, described as a \"TripAdvisor for healthcare\" recently reached number one on iTunes. leedsdatamill.org DOT DOT DOT Homes for volunteers There are almost half a million long-term empty homes in the UK while many people can't actually afford to rent or get onto the property ladder. This website allows people to live in a local empty home as a property guardian in return for doing at least four hours per week of volunteering work for charity. dotdotdotproperty.com DIGITAL MUMS Online social media training for mothers Created last April by Kathryn Tyler and Nikki Cochrane, this provides training to mothers in Hackney, London and helps them find apprenticeships as social media managers in small local firms. digitalmums.org SPACE HIVE Transforming public spaces Former architecture journalist Chris Gourlay founded this crowdfunding platform in 2012 to help local communities improve their public spaces. Recent projects include a new garden in Hackney's Morland estate. spacehive.com THE SUNDAY ASSEMBLY Non-religious congregation celebrating life Comedians Pippa Evans and Sanderson Jones convened the first Sunday assembly \u2013 a fortnightly non-religious service helping people improve their lives \u2013 in London in 2013. Now there are 28 around the world. sundayassembly.com SPARK AND METTLE Helping young people develop work skills This charity uses coaching, tech and collaborative events to build character strengths, personal skills and the networks young people need to succeed in work and life. sparkandmettle.org.uk THE CITY TALKING (HEBE MEDIA) Media company and creative consultancy Designed to reach and engage a young Leeds audience, the organisation began life as a Facebook page and is now a newspaper that reaches 25% of under-35s in the city. It aims to develop open-data communities, and then feed that data back into content. thecitytalking.com CODE CLUB Teaching children to code A nationwide network of free after-school coding clubs for children aged 9-11. Children are taught one project a week and learn how to make games, animations and websites. codeclub.org.uk UMOTIF Software for patients and clinicians A socially minded software firm helping people to lead healthy and independent lives. Using its apps, people can monitor their health and share data with health professionals. umotif.com SCIENCE SHOWOFF Sharing knowledge through entertainment Open-mic cabaret nights for scientists, communicators, teachers and the like, which raise money for charites such as Save the Children. Performers might tell jokes, play songs, read poetry, or give any kind of performance at all. scienceshowoff.org CROWDFUNDER Raising funds to get projects started The UK's leading crowdfunding platform, connecting projects with communities and raising money, awareness and support to make ideas happen. It has has raised over \u00a32m to date, providing an alternative means of funding that allows individuals to take their ideas forward and make them a reality. crowdfunder.co.uk CIVIC SYSTEMS LAB Seeding a local civic economy A group that seeks to develop new open ways to produce a sustainable society while tackling poverty at a time when local authorities are stretched. The aim is to understand and develop citizen-led change and the civic economy, working with a wide range of partners from across the public private and third sector. civicsystemslab.org SCHOOL FOR HEALTH AND CARE RADICALS Virtual-learning healthcare programme This five-week course operates via web seminars and chat forums, encourages healthcare professionals worldwide to find ways of improving patient care. The second term begins in January 2015. changeday.nhs.uk/healthcareradicals SO SAY SCOTLAND Promoting participative democracy A politically neutral, \"broad-minded\", non-profit and currently voluntary project, imagining Scotland as a hub of democratic innovation. sosayscotland.org",
  "title": "More of the best new radicals",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "environment/food",
    "technology/crowdfunding",
    "society/housing",
    "society/communities",
    "society/society",
    "media/data-journalism",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "society/volunteering",
    "society/voluntarysector",
    "society/health"
  ],
  "lead": "From a gravity-powered light for the developing world to cabaret nights for scientists, green gap years, coffee bio-power and more of the best bright ideas",
  "id": "theobserver/2014/sep/07/more-best-2014-new-radicals-observer-nesta",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}