{
  "content": "Israeli soldiers, their faces obscured to avoid punishment, have mounted an unprecedented mass online campaign in support of a soldier they believe was jailed for pointing his gun at Palestinians who were arguing with him. The social media campaign in support of \"David of Nahal\" \u2013 as he has been dubbed, referring to his brigade \u2013 follows the publication online on Sunday of a video shot in Hebron in which he is seen threatening Palestinian youths confronting him with his cocked rifle. The campaign began after it was suggested on Facebook that he had been jailed because of the incident, prompting an outpouring of support. A report on the Maariv website had said the soldier had been dismissed and jailed for 20 days. However, according to a statement put out by the Israel defence forces (IDF), David Admov's punishment was for assaulting superior officers \u2013 allegedly on two separate occasions \u2013 and was not connected to the incident. Despite the confusion, the incident and the reaction of Israeli soldiers and politicians has touched a deep nerve in Israeli society, triggering a widespread debate in the media. The incident has sufficiently alarmed the IDF's chief of staff, Lt Gen Benny Gantz, that he has ordered an investigation into the original incident and the social media campaign. \"It's important that we remember and tell our subordinates in a clear manner that Facebook is not a command tool. It is here, and that's a fact, but it is not a replacement or even a parallel channel for dialogue between commanders and their soldiers,\" Gantz told the weekly general staff meeting, according to several Israeli papers last night. He added that the online campaign of dissent \"raised issues of ethics in the military, which we must deal with on every level\". The incident was interpreted on Thursday in front-page reports as a sign of soldiers' frustrations over their service in occupied territory, where their actions are often under scrutiny from journalists and pro-Palestinian activists with cameras. Despite a military statement to the effect that the soldier had not been arrested over the incident, a Facebook page \u2013 \"I also back David from Nahal\" \u2013 showed hundreds of photographs, many of them of male and female soldiers in uniform holding placards in front of their faces with messages of support. Another Facebook support page had more than 80,000 likes on Thursday. In the past, the army has punished troops for posting material on social media including female soldiers posing in their underwear holding guns. \"This is the first digital mutiny experienced by the Israel defence forces,\" wrote Amos Harel, military affairs correspondent of the left-leaning Haaretz newspaper. He said the social media campaign reflected \"combat soldiers' disagreement with a policy of constraint dictated by the high command in dealing with Palestinian residents\". The online campaign began on the same day as Binyamin Netanyahu's admission that the younger generation's attachment to both smartphones and selfies baffled him. During a photoshoot before an interview with foreign press last week, the Israeli prime minister bemoaned a picture-obsessed culture. \"I don't understand this new world,\" he said. \"I'm the only one here without all these electronic devices; I'm a free man, and you all are slaves. You are slaves!\" Violence in the West Bank has decreased since a Palestinian uprising ended in 2006, but Palestinians and human rights groups frequently complain of heavy-handed treatment by the Israeli military. According to Yehuda Saul of Breaking the Silence, an organisation founded by ex-soldiers to depict the reality of the occupation, the video of a \"routine confrontation\" that happens daily had become \"something more and bigger\" because of the campaign. \"What the soldiers are saying is if you look at David you have to look at us. This is not unique. The next step is to ask \u2013 as we do \u2013 are we tolerant or not because our soldiers are?\" Economy minister Naftali Bennett, who heads a far-right party, alsowrote a message on his Facebook page in support of David, saying the soldier \"did the right thing\". He added: \"This isn't a reality show. It is a complicated and dangerous situation with which Israeli combat troops must deal on a day-by-day basis.\"",
  "title": "Israeli soldiers join online campaign in support of jailed 'David of Nahal'",
  "lead": "Online campaign follows publication of video showing soldier David Admov pointing gun at Palestinians confronting him",
  "tags": [
    "world/palestinian-territories",
    "world/israel",
    "media/social-media",
    "world/benjamin-netanyahu",
    "media/digital-media",
    "world/middleeast",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "world/2014/may/01/israeli-soldiers-online-campaign-support-jailed-david-nahal",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}