{
  "content": "Today's extract from the second, updated edition of the book about local journalism What do we mean by local?* is by Marc Astley, former editor of the Exeter Express &amp; Echo, who founded and co-owns two news websites serving Exeter and Plymouth. His chapter begins with a lengthy section charting the changes of direction by Northcliffe Media, the then owner of Exeter's daily paper, as the digital revolution took hold.** I pick up his story at the conclusion of his editorship at the end of 2012. After I left the Express &amp; Echo, a friend asked me why I hadn't set up my own newspaper. After explaining that there were two reasons, the first being I am not a raving lunatic and the second that I didn't have cash to burn, I began thinking about his question. So I drew up an investment plan with a former colleague and worked out the minimum number of editorial staff needed to run a digital newspaper. I decided that I would not replicate the old print model. We wouldn't rely on a diet of crime and negative news stories; we would encourage citizen journalism. I figured that if we struck up deals with the local sports clubs, the theatre, the local chamber of commerce and a whole host of other organisations that employ journalists as PR folk we could manage with 1.5 news staff. That isn't a typo... 1.5. How? Well we went back to basics and took a brave leap into the future at the same time. The very earliest newspapers were handwritten and the work of individuals and so, I began to reason, with the plethora of social media channels, blogs and digital resources why couldn't one person (the 0.5 is for holidays) curate, commission, create and aggregate enough content to fill a daily online platform? It soon struck me that there was no reason at all and so theexeterdaily.co.uk was born. Within eight months of being launched it had notched up more than 350,000 hits and been visited by 90,000 different people. And all of this was achieved with no marketing budget, no print title to support it and, yes, 1.5 editorial staff. We are not, nor will we ever purport to be, a like-for-like replacement for a traditional, local newspaper. In fact, we genuinely don't want to be. Our stock-in-trade is upbeat and positive community news, provided by the community itself. If a big story breaks we will cover it but we don't go looking. We aren't afraid to splash on a what's-on round-up or even a blog. There is no gatekeeping as such. Anyone can register on the site and post content, with trusted contributors being given direct access and the rest being pre-moderated. A random and odd free-for-all - but it works Other than any overtly commercial content and submissions that don't fall under the legal, decent and honest criteria, more or less anything goes. It's a somewhat random, intangible and occasionally odd free-for-all, but it works. Maybe that's because most of the current most popular global platforms are, by nature, somewhat random, intangible and occasionally odd free-for-alls. The game has changed. In the blink of an eye, the barriers to reaching mass audiences have been demolished and the monopoly the big publishers and broadcasters wielded, diminished. Consumer-to-provider and consumer-to-consumer conversations are easier than ever before and the trusted expert is no longer the writer with the local newspaper business card. The jury is still out on whether our approach will work in the long term but we have already launched a second website in Plymouth and made others available for franchise. Revenues are growing, as are user numbers, and in the first seven months in business we were nominated for two major industry awards. At the same time, my former employers were in the midst of \"transformation projects\" aimed at adopting a \"digital first\" approach. With many newspaper websites being shaped by centralised think tanks, the emasculation of a swathe of once vibrant and, yes, ballsy papers is almost complete. So the very thing that made newspapers unique and special and \u2013 certainly in what was Northcliffe's case \u2013 the very thing that set them poles apart from websites like ours has been snuffed out. The most frightening thing of all, though, is that the monumental change I have just described has happened in the space of just seven years. During that time, the group I once worked for has been sold for just over \u00a350m, having been valued during my tenure at \u00a31.3bn. The newspaper I edited is selling just shy of 20,000 copies per week when only two years earlier we were shifting more than 16,000 a day. Advertising continues to haemorrhage to the web, an increasing number of former readers now get their \"news\" from Facebook and Twitter, and businesses are able to self-publish via blogs, Flickr and Flipboard. This has led to assurances that, for newspapers, the future is digital. However, the figures still don't stack up. In most cases the print product is still providing 90% of any local newspaper publisher's revenue, despite the kitchen sink and a tray of cutlery being thrown at the problem. The real conundrum for newspaper websites But here's the real conundrum: the vast majority of local newspapers' digital platforms are in a far worse state than would appear on the surface. Why? Because they are being propped up editorially by the print version. Most newspaper websites have one (or slightly less) digital editor and, as we at The Daily UK have established, that is the model. So just how will publishers continue to drive improved, and more, content if the print revenue decline accelerates? Who will pay the wages of the journalists if what traditionally earned their bread and butter (the newspaper) continues to decline, yet the only real hope for their future (the website) fails to engage enough advertisers to tip the balance? For me, the problem is quite straightforward: it has been 300 years since the first daily newspaper was published in this country yet the process of gathering and disseminating content has changed very little. Despite the digital revolution most newsrooms still, in effect, operate a print-first model and are wedded to a model that ceased to work around a decade ago. On the flipside of the much-hyped \"transformation projects\" and \"editor lite\" strategies, there are still trees to chop down, ink to buy, lorries to fuel and newsagents to pay a commission to. That's not to mention the real estate, the depreciating equipment, the hefty group recharges and, of course, the pension pot. And so, in reality, is there really a game- changing idea that hasn't been tried or thought of before and that will be enough to turn around this giant super tanker of a problem? Sadly, I somehow doubt it. The answer probably lies somewhere between what we are doing at the Exeter Daily and the ambitions of the likes of Local World [Northcliffe's replacement owners] who, to be fair, are challenging the status quo. It will require reporters to be multi-skilled and more responsible for what they publish and even greater collaboration between closely related geographical titles. Editors and publishers - your time on the throne is over But, for significant change to happen, offices will have to close, with staff working from home or being mobile and, yes, whisper it quietly, citizen journalism will have to be encouraged, nurtured and embraced. Finally, the most significant change has to be a change in attitude. Editors, publishers and, yes, even newspaper owners, need to realise their time on the throne has come to an end. They no longer wield the power, influence or control that was once beyond question. To continue to act, as far too many do, as self-appointed gatekeepers and final arbiters of the truth with little genuine recourse to a newly-empowered society, is plain crazy. Social media, citizen journalism and crowd-sourced content are not only concepts that are here to stay, they will only gain in popularity and importance. The longer readers are ignored by newspapers, the more disenfranchised they will become. For those cynical subs out there who are more than likely shouting and screaming at this page as they read, I have three words for you... get over it! What I have described is a movement, not a fad. Bloggers can attract more hits than the official website of the product or service they are writing about. The figures speak for themselves. It's a simple economic truth that if people like stuff, they'll buy it and if they don't, or are indifferent, they won't. And an increasing number of people aren't buying newspapers. I still buy, and love, newspapers, both local and national, and I would rue the day that either ceased to exist. But, having said that, if I were still in the editor's chair I'd shudder to think what the next decade held in store. On Monday: David Banks, former editor of the Daily Mirror, who now edits an e-paper in Northumberland *What do we mean by local? The rise, fall \u2013 and possible rise again \u2013 of local journalism is edited by John Mair, Richard Lance Keeble and Neil Fowler. To be published 1 September by Abramis at \u00a319.95. Special offer to Guardian readers, \u00a315, from richard@arimapublishing.co.uk **Northcliffe Media was sold to Local World at the end of 2012. The Express &amp; Echo became a weekly in September 2011",
  "title": "Ex-editor goes back to the future with a 'good news' community website",
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade presents a fifth extract from the updated second edition of the book What do we mean by local? It's by Marc Astley",
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/local-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/northcliffe-media",
    "media/local-world",
    "uk/plymouth",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/flickr",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/greenslade/2013/aug/16/digital-media-local-newspapers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}