{
  "content": "Almost 2,000 British directors have successfully applied to the Government for their private addresses to be struck off records at Companies House on the grounds that they fear coming under physical attack. The revelation highlights how worried Britain's corporate leaders have become about the threat posed by anti-globalisation activists and animal rights groups. Since last April, when the Government issued an amendment to the Companies Act granting confidentiality orders to company executives who can prove they face a physical threat, 1,852 directors have successfully applied for their residential addresses to be withheld. Records at Companies House show a further 41 applications were turned down on the basis that the applicants did not provide sufficient evidence to support claims they were under physical threat. Last week it was disclosed that nine out of the 14 board members of Tesco had been granted such an order. Tesco has been on the receiving end of a series of protests from animal rights activists due to a link between the supermarket giant and Huntingdon Life Sciences. Tesco's personal banking arm is run by Royal Bank of Scotland, which has acted for HLS. It has also emerged that Lord John Browne, chairman of BP, recently lodged an application with the Government to hide his home address. A BP spokesman said Browne had decided to apply for the order 'based on the advice from our security people'. He declined to comment on whether there had been a specific threat to Browne, but BP, as one of the world's largest oil companies, attracts protesters from across the globe. Currently, company directors are obliged to provide details of their home address to Companies House. However, once granted a confidentiality order, they are entitled to list a service address instead. Most choose the address of their company's headquarters. An application for a confidentiality order needs to be lodged with the Department of Trade and Industry. The decision is made following consultations with the police. A spokesman for Companies House said the final decision on whether to approve an order lay with the Secretary of State. 'Only those company officers that are identified as being at genuine risk of violence or intimidation will benefit,' the spokesman said. Once granted, the decision to grant the order is reviewed every five years. Many companies receive threats from lobby and campaign groups. Last year, high street stores Boots and Sainsbury faced protests from anti-abortion groups following their decision to sell the morning-after pill. However, both firms said none of their directors had applied for confidentiality orders.",
  "title": "Attack fears force bosses into hiding",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/business",
    "world/globalisation",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Almost 2,000 British directors have successfully applied to the Government for their private addresses to be struck off records at Companies House on the grounds that they fear coming under physical attack. ",
  "id": "business/2003/apr/20/globalisation.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}