{
  "content": "Fears that sensitive genetic and health data will not be kept securely may be slowing recruitment to a medical research project designed to help further understanding of how to tackle deadly medical conditions. Only one in 10 are signing up after receiving a letter inviting them to take part in the UK Biobank project. A report seen by the Guardian suggests that \"security is likely to be a key decisive consideration for potential participants\". The report, commissioned by the Biobank ethics and governance council, shows that members of the public fear information from their medical records, together with blood and urine samples they give, will be shared with private companies, and they are particularly opposed to the possibility that it may be passed to organisations overseas. Biobank aims to recruit 500,000 people aged 40-69 from all over the UK. Some 2.5m letters have been dispatched inviting people to participate in a project which \"should give future generations a much better chance of living their lives free of diseases that disable and kill\". The letters allot people an individual provisional appointment for assessment, which they are free to cancel. Critics say many people will feel obliged to attend the assessment centre because of the official appearance of the letter, which bears the Department of Health logo. Participants will be followed up for the rest of their lives to check their health and the development of any disease. The database of anonymised, detailed health information, and blood and urine samples which offer genetic material will be available to scientific researchers with a valid and approved research proposal. Professor Rory Collins, principal investigator and chief executive of UK Biobank, said he did not believe data security was a big issue. Some 7,000 people who had turned down the invitation were asked their reasons. Although only half replied, the main reason given was lack of time, followed by illness. Only a small minority cited worries about data security. \"There are people who are concerned and don't take part but our data say that is a very small minority,\" he said. Professors of IT had contacted the project with concerns, he added, but when the security arrangements had been explained, had agreed to take part themselves. All data from the assessment centre is encrypted and personal identifiers are separated from the data and kept under secure key code anonymisation. Only a limited number of people at UK Biobank have access to the key codes. Nonetheless, the Biobank recruitment drive alarms privacy campaigners and MPs who see it as part of a move towards collecting and storing personal and genetic data on every citizen. Ian Gibson MP, former chair of the Commons science and technology committee, said: \"With all the recent problems with IT and databases, I'm very suspicious that they are going to be just as bad in holding on to the information.\" Helen Wallace, of pressure group Genewatch, said drugs companies would wish to access the data: \"This research project is part of a much bigger plan to implement a brave new world where everyone is classified by their genetic risk and given medication even if they are not ill.\"",
  "title": "Privacy fears may slow big genome project to tackle killer diseases",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "science/genetics",
    "science/science",
    "politics/freedomofinformation",
    "world/privacy",
    "society/health",
    "science/medical-research",
    "politics/politics",
    "society/society",
    "uk/uk",
    "science/biology"
  ],
  "lead": "Fears that sensitive genetic and health data not kept securely slowing recruitment to medical research project",
  "id": "science/2008/dec/30/genetics-freedom-of-information",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}