{
  "content": "Kate Hudson's decision to instruct law firm Schillings over the various pictures of her that have appeared in the press provides an interesting departure from the usual actions brought in relation to unwanted topless shots or similar \"exclusives\" of or relating to celebrities' private parts. The action by the Hollywood actress is not so much about the fact that pictures of her were published but is more about the story that is being attached to them. Whether or not, as has been suggested, the pictures may in any way have been or become distorted to make her look skinny, they are being used to frame a story and claim that she is suffering from an eating disorder and is \"wasting away\". As a statement issued by her lawyers makes clear, her decision to have them rattle their sabre at the magazines and other media peddling such celebrity gossip is based on the desire to correct the \"seriously false and misleading impression\" they have created about her. Both the courts and the PCC have seen a string of complaints in recent years relating to privacy and confidentiality where celebrities have been snapped on beaches (Sara Cox; Anna Ford), in clubs (Elizabeth Jagger), in brothels (Jamie Theakston), online (Paris Hilton), had old pictures put up for sale (Cameron Diaz) or had their children pictured without consent (Ewan McGregor; Kate Beckinsale). This case takes the ongoing debate surrounding the acceptable limits that apply to the use of unauthorised photographs by a celebrity-obsessed media in a new direction. It moves away from the picture itself being the focus of the story and concentrates on the use of pictures to substantiate the story. Whereas the majority of previous cases have ultimately come down to the question of the rights attaching to the control of an image (as was demonstrated in the saga that was Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta Jones' battle with Hello! magazine), this case looks at the ability or right to control the story as well as the image. If it proceeds to litigation, it will provide an interesting follow-up to the Naomi Campbell case. In that case, one could argue that the use of a photograph to expose the fact Campbell had lied about drugs was acceptable. What was not acceptable to the House of Lords was the level of additional information attached to the story surrounding the photograph. Whether looked at from a privacy or libel perspective, where one uses a photograph as the basis for a story and one cannot prove or justify the story beyond the assumption one is asking readers to make in relation to what supposedly lies behind that image, the use of that photograph becomes less defensible. So for the various titles whether they be the ones Hudson complains of such as Heat or Closer or the burgeoning brands from Grazia to Nuts and GQ, the message is clear: if the picture doesn't tell its own story you need to be careful with the one you attach to it. It won't be friends and family but the lawyers who get asked the question \"Does my bum look too big in this?\" \u00b7Edgar Forbes is senior lecturer in media law at Bournemouth Media School \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Say what you see",
  "lead": "Legal comment: Kate Hudson's complaint takes the debate surrounding acceptable limits on the use of unauthorised photographs by a celebrity-obsessed media in a new direction, writes Edgar Forbes",
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2005/nov/09/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}