{
  "content": "My posting on Friday, \"Why it's time to put the Sunday People out of its misery\", unsurprisingly provoked a measure of disagreement, not least from the paper's staff and Trinity Mirror's communications chief. Indeed, early on Sunday, a courier arrived at my Brighton home with a copy of the People plus the above note. The delivery \u2013 many thanks \u2013 was organised by the paper's showbusiness editor, Katie Hind, who had previously tweeted her displeasure at my views. The People's head of content, James Saville, also took to Twitter to take issue with me, and they received support from non-People journalists too, including the Sunday Mirror's Kevin O'Sullivan, Daily Star reporter Nigel Pauley and the Sky News political correspondent, Sophy Ridge. But I want to assure Hind, who referred to me in one tweet as \"a bitter old bastard\", that I have nothing to be bitter about, so bitterness played no part in my call for her paper's closure. Her passion is commendable and I agree that it is remarkable for a journalist to suggest that a paper be closed, so I didn't do it lightly. And I certainly didn't mean any disrespect to the staff who try so valiantly against the odds to produce the paper. As so often with journalists, despite facing almost impossible challenges of reduced resources, they enter into the challenge with enthusiasm. And they are therefore fiercely proud of their efforts. No journalist should be fired \u2013 they are needed elsewhere I was quite specific in saying that none of them \u2013 not one \u2013 should lose their jobs because they are desperately needed at Trinity Mirror's flagship titles, the Daily and Sunday Mirror. And that was the burden of my argument. My objection to the continued publication of the People within the Mirror stable is that it reduces the focus on the titles that require consistent commitment if they are to have a future. Even if we accept that the People contributes towards the group's profitability, as the company always claims, the short-term financial benefits are irrelevant. This is about the long-term. It's about the future of a hugely important title (in these days of seven-day papers, the two Mirrors are really a single entity). The Mirror is the only paper that has offered lasting support, not only to the Labour party, but to a set of political and social values quite distinct from every other popular paper. For example, it has opposed the creeping privatisation of the NHS. Its support for the trade unions has diminished over the years, but it remains broadly sympathetic to organised labour. It is the only big-selling paper to support Britain's continued membership of the European Union. The editor, Lloyd Embley, has good reason to celebrate his first anniversary in the chair. He has steadied the ship, and he is clearly trying to reinvigorate the paper. (Too much celebrity for my taste, but that's a different matter). He has one key advantage over his predecessor, Richard Wallace, in that he has a more understanding chief executive in Simon Fox, who has shown much greater interest in the paper than his own predecessor, Sly Bailey. Day on day, however, it is blindingly obvious that the Mirror requires more resources \u2013 and that means more journalists \u2013 if it is to have any hope of out-lasting the Sun and the Daily Mail. The print circulation signs are good. As I pointed out in November last year, the Mirror was beginning to stop the sales rot. That has continued to be the story, as I noted on Friday. Now is the time to take advantage of this change in fortunes by investing yet more in the Mirror, and nowhere is this more urgent than online. Digital investment \u2013 meaning also intelligent digital thinking \u2013 is very necessary and long overdue. The paper's website is just not good enough to compete with that of either the Sun or Mail. Arguably, the Daily Express's online revamp makes it better than the Mirror's too. Sacrificing the People, but not its people, would enable Trinity Mirror to concentrate on the Mirror. With the addition of extra journalists, many with executive skills, would enable the paper to make an even better fist of its circulation battle I am calling for a bold strategic decision that would, in the long run, be good for Trinity Mirror. I would imagine it putting a spring in the step of investors too, showing a willingness to be radical. Finally, I must address the particular point made to me in favour of the People by several of its staff (plus Ms Ridge) \u2013 its recent campaign against the so-called bedroom tax. The story took a tragic turn last week when a woman committed suicide, leaving a note saying she could not afford to pay the new tax. The People \u2013 and the People alone \u2013 splashed on the woman's death on Sunday. Clearly, the paper's campaign \u2013 launched back in January \u2013 has caught the public imagination. It is to the credit of the editor, James Scott, and the paper's excellent political editor, Nigel Nelson, that they have taken up this crusade against a deeply unpopular government tax, which is disproportionately harsh on their working-class audience. But a single campaign \u2013 no matter how worthy \u2013 is not itself a justification for continuing to publish the People. And it's also fair to say that the Mirror has been running anti-bedroom tax stories for months. Indeed, it is noteworthy that Monday morning's Mirror also splashed on the woman's suicide, repeating the People story without adding any significant new facts. Why? Because the Mirror's audience is so much bigger. Because it carries more clout. Because, as so often, there is this irritating overlap between the agenda of the People and the Mirror. There simply is no point in producing a third national title. Yes, closure would mean a loss of some of the People's audience and the likelihood of some leakage to the Sun on Sunday and Daily Star on Sunday. That, again, is beside the point. What matters is that Trinity Mirror should stretch every sinew by devoting every available resource to rebuild the Mirror before it's too late. The alternative is to watch the gradual withering away of both the Mirror and the People.",
  "title": "The People, part two: sacrifice the paper for the Mirror's sake",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/thepeople",
    "media/trinity-mirror",
    "media/lloyd-embley",
    "media/daily-mirror",
    "media/sundaymirror",
    "media/simon-fox",
    "media/slybailey",
    "media/sun",
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/richardwallace",
    "media/daily-star-sunday",
    "media/sun-on-sunday",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/sky-news",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade  understands why the staff were upset by his call for closure, but says it is a strategic necessity",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2013/may/13/thepeople-trinity-mirror",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}