{
  "content": "Recriminations are flying thick and fast among rightwing activists after someone, possibly a BNP malcontent, posted the party's entire membership on the internet. The BNP leader, Nick Griffin, claimed that he knew the identity of the person who published the list, describing him as a \"hardliner\" senior employee who left the party last year. \"He didn't like the direction the party was going and broke away, taking the list with him,\" Griffin told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. Be that as it may, the BNP leaker has unleashed a fresh bout of infighting among far right activists. Griffin has faced strong criticism of his leadership and tensions within the party boiled over last December when two key organisers were sacked for gross misconduct. BNP dissidents are fuming on the NorthWestNationalists website, a forum for anti-Griffin activists, who have never forgiven Griffin for deposing John Tyndall \u2013 the former BNP leader \u2013 in 1999. Tyndall died in 2005. Several bloggers are calling for Griffin's resignation, including this one. Someone or some people at the highest levels in the BNP has/have to take responsibility for this, if a local organiser had been lax enough to entrust local party members details to someone who leaked them, I bet a pound to a penny Nick Griffin would not hesitate in making an example of them to restore confidence. Another focused his anger not just on Griffin but also on Mark Collett, the party's director of publicity, a key Griffin ally. Don't know if Griffin should go but Collett has to. Least thing he could of done was be a man, an honest man, and admitted it was true. How can anyone in the BNP trust him ever again? Least we would have known from one of our supposed own rather than let the reds break it to us. Fellow members can never ever trust another thing he says, so his position is untenable. He must be sacked. Another poster poses the question cui bono? Who benefits? Leading to the theory \u2013 implausible as it may sound - that Griffin had a hand in the leak. Think about it. Frighten off activists who want to do things and that leaves the armchair squad sending in their cash for entertainments. Activists are a thorn in Griffin's side. Liberal and leftwing bloggers can hardly conceal their delight at the discomfiture of BNP activists and supporters. Chicken Yoghurt points out this delicious irony. The crowning jewel of the story is that the BNP, who only this month called the Human Rights Act 'surely one of the most pernicious pieces of legislation ever passed by the mother of parliaments,' and reiterated its promise to repeal it when the party - don't laugh - becomes a 'British Nationalist government', have now asked to police to investigate breaches of the Human Rights Act. Other bloggers voice concern at the latest breakdown in privacy following serious cases of data loss under the government. Curly's Corner Shop, a conservative blogger, deplores those who stole private details of individuals and made them publicly available. In this country we ought to value our privacy more and accept the fact that we live in an open democracy which still allows us the freedom and liberty to pick and choose which political parties we can join, even if the policies are outlandish, statist, protectionist, and racist. The Guardian's Michael White agrees that BNP members should enjoy the same rights to privacy as others. \"My instinct is that we should be as offended on their behalf as we would be about any breach of personal privacy on this scale.\"",
  "title": "BNP members in disarray",
  "lead": "BNP leader comes under fire after entire membership list is posted on the internet",
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/bnp"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "news/blog/2008/nov/19/thefarright-privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}