{
  "content": "Have you ever wondered what personal information or data a prospective employer is entitled to ask you for at interview, or their legal obligation to look after such information once they have it? Associated Press recently reported that some employers in the US are now taking inspection of social media profiles to a new level, with candidates asked to provide passwords to their personal Facebook page or other social network sites they use. This led to Facebook's chief privacy officer, Erin Egan, posting a Facebook note warning that the company could \"initiate legal action\" against employers that demand Facebook passwords, as this violates the website's terms of service. The legality of the practise in the US is not clear, but could it happen in the UK? It is unlikely, as it would potentially put employers in breach of the Data Protection Act 1998, constituting \"excessive\" information about an individual, and I cannot see the Information Commissioners Office allowing it. But of course, we may never know about desperate job seekers, faced with such a request, who are prepared to acquiesce. So, what other information is a prospective employer going to have difficulty eliciting from you at interview stage? Before you are offered a job, you cannot be asked health or disability related questions \u2013 including how many days' sickness you had in your previous employment (although there are limited exceptions where it is a necessary requirement of the job). After you have been offered a job, health inquiries can be made, but only to ensure that there are no obstacles to being able to carry out your role. Your employer cannot ask for a medical report on you without your knowledge or consent. In addition, you cannot be asked your age or date of birth. Crafty employers do try to get round this by posing related questions, such as asking an older applicant how long he or she saw herself working until retirement, but this would also be unlawful. Interviewers should avoid asking questions about your marital status, whether you have children, or are planning a family soon. It is acceptable, though, to be asked whether there are any responsibilities that could interfere with your attendance at work. You should furthermore not be questioned about your sexual preferences. If, on the basis of your name or appearance, an interviewer were to ask about where you were born, your race, native language, or religious views or affiliations, this could be seen as potential discrimination if you are not offered the role. You should be interviewed on the merits of your expertise for the job only. Once your employer has gathered data on you, there are strict rules under the Data Protection Act as to how such data is stored and used, whether you are offered the job or not. Your employer may hold sensitive information relating to your health, racial origins, criminal history, and in some cases your internet and email use. The act provides for any data stored to be relevant, not overly excessive and not kept for longer than necessary. Even as an unsuccessful job applicant, you may find a company retains your CV on file in case vacancies arise in the future; again, this should only be kept for a reasonable period of time. You have the legal right to apply for a copy of your personal file, and to ask your employer to correct or delete information that is inaccurate or likely to cause you damage or distress. You can also claim compensation from your employer if you suffer a detriment following their breach of their legal obligations. So there are safeguards. But there are some employers who will flout the rules and get away with it, especially where employees are not aware of their rights. And in the case of questions which should not be asked at interview, many desperate and unguarded candidates simply won't care, as they strive to be as transparent as possible to secure that elusive job. Philip Landau is an employment lawyer at Landau Zeffertt Weir solicitors",
  "title": "What you can \u2013 and cannot \u2013 be asked in a job interview",
  "lead": "There are strict limits to what interviewers can ask \u2013 and your Facebook password, or plans to start a family, is just not allowed",
  "tags": [
    "money/job-hunting",
    "money/graduates",
    "money/work-and-careers",
    "money/money",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "money/blog/2012/mar/30/what-can-ask-job-interview",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}