{
  "content": "With the worst economic crisis in a generation \u2013 some might argue in several \u2013 and the worst decline in advertising in history, Matt Wells, the host of the Guardian's Media Talk podcast, asked a panel of journalists and social media experts how journalism had to transform itself to meet the challenges of the 21st century. It was the first time that the podcast was recorded in front of a live audience, and joining Matt: \u2022 Emily Bell, the Guardian's director of digital content \u2022 BBC technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones \u2022 tech blogger Robert Scoble \u2022 Sarah Lacy, blogger at TechCrunch, columnist at BusinessWeek and also co-host of Tech Ticker on Yahoo! \u2022 social media expert JD Lasica of SocialMedia.biz Scoble, Lacy and Lasica are touring the UK with the \"Traveling Geeks\", a group of social media luminaries and 'technology influencers' from the US. They will be appearing at several events in London on Thursday and in Cambridge on Friday. Wells began by sketching out the sobering state of the media. TV is playing catchup to YouTube. \"Radio is even more stuck in the dark ages,\" he said, and the result is that about 20,000 journalists have lost their jobs in the last 18 months. Wells wondered how long it would be before the UK lost one of its national newspapers. In the US, the situation is worse. Lacy said, by the end of the year, \"we could have 10 major metropolitan cities that no longer have major daily papers. No one thought it would happen so fast.\" Scoble said that advertising was moving from print to online and jokingly blamed another member of the Traveling Geeks, Craig Newmark, the founder of online classified service Craigslist. While some might focus on advertising, Lacy thought that newspapers had an even bigger problem. \"The papers are losing their audience as well,\" she said. Lasica worked for newspapers for 20 years, and he said, \"with some sadness, the state of the news industry is not good\". He doesn't know a person under 25 who reads a newspaper. Lacy interjected that she doesn't know a person under 35 who reads a newspaper. Bell laid some of the blame at the feet of the newspaper industry itself and accused papers of losing touch with their audience after enjoying years of monopoly. The recession with its collapse in advertising and the technological disruption that began long before the recession have led to volatility in the industry, Lacy said. With the recent death of Michael Jackson, the celebrity gossip blog was just as likely to be right as CNN, she added. With all the changes in the media, Lasica said that news consumers needed to become smarter, more discerning. \"They need a BS detector or as Hemingway said, a crap detector,\" he said. In the age of rolling, breaking, Twitter-fed and spread news, for the BBC to maintain its brand, Cellan-Jones suggested it should not focus on always being first. The BBC has a standard of always having two independent sources before reporting a story. \"It is not a bad brand to have to be a bit more careful,\" he said. Joking that on the web you're never wrong for long, Bell said that exclusivity was diminishing in value with the speed at which stories circulate now. \"Very few news organisations live in the centre of the story. The rest is about context,\" she said. Journalists could no longer expect audiences to come to them in the age of Twitter, when the barrier to entry technologically was a text message, she said, adding: You have to go where they are, and they spend most of their time speaking to others. From that point of view, it's quite hard for journalists to mentally cross that Rubicon. Lasica said it was disappointing how long it had taken news organisations to change. Ten years ago, they debated whether they should have a website and risk canabilising their print readership. Five years ago, they debated whether their journalists should blog, and now, they are debating whether journalists should be on social networks. \"Social media can be used for public service journalism,\" he said, pointing to National Public Radio's use of Twitter to report voting problems during the US elections. But the discussion quickly shifted to business models and how to pay for journalism. Should newspapers put their content behind a paywall? Bell said that she felt trapped in Groundhog Day, having the same debate the industry had almost ten years ago. In some ways she was happy for Rupert Murdoch to waste time debating on whether to charge for content. \"Hurray! Every time you think about an old model that won't work, it's another minute you can tick off the life clock of your organisation.\" When Cellan-Jones asked whether she was ruling out ever charging for content, she said that people paid for utility and that there might be the opportunity to charge in the \"apps market\". But, she added, \"Pay for content? I just don't see it.\" Lacy pointed out that subscriptions had never really been a profit centre for old media. Wells asked if it pay models might work if newspapers banded together to charge. \"That's just stupid,\" Lacy said. \"It's like the war on Google. If papers provided what the audience wanted, the audience wouldn't be fleeing, and they wouldn't have a problem.\" Lasica returned to his belief that newspapers had been slow to react. Working for almost two decades in newspapers, he saw little change. \"They need a new kind of approach. There has to be a willingness to experiment, to move on and to innovate,\" he said. Newspapers need to open up their sites and create a community platform to collaborate on content and technology with their audiences. Craig Newmark wasn't part of the panel, but he was in the audience, and although Wells admitted that he must be \"fed up to the back of his teeth\" with the charge, he said, \"You are being blamed for the death of newspapers.\" His free advertising platform has been blamed for depriving newspapers of a huge chunk of their income. \"No one serious is blaming us for those things,\" Newmark said. He's more concerned about trust in the media. \"What can you read that you can actually believe? We rely more on a network of friends for information than we do the media.\" Lasica said that newspapers would have to find a new business model to pay for important journalism, for difficult, time-consuming investigations that ordinary people won't do. \"It's hard work. No one wants to spend their Saturdays digging through corporate records,\" he said. Scoble said that the news industry must learn that business models are changing. TechCrunch makes the majority of its money from charging admission to its conferences. Cellan-Jones said one possibility is that a whole generation had grown up with the expectation that things are free on the internet but they pay on their mobile phones. Wells asked Bell if it mattered if in the future there won't be a paper version of the Guardian. She said no and referred to Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger's comment that the paper might have bought its last presses just a few years ago. The key thing is not whether the Guardian is printed but its approach to journalism, it's content and community, she said. Lacy bluntly said about the future of printed newspapers: Shut 'em down now. They've been dragging it out this long. They need to force figuring out next model instead of dwindling and slowly die. You can listen to the full podcast of Media Talk and hear the questions our studio audience asked. But you can still comment either here or on Media Talk.",
  "title": "'Traveling Geeks' discuss journalism in the 21st Century",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/twitter",
    "careers/media-jobs",
    "careers/forums",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "For the inaugural live audience for the Guardian's Media Talk podcast, Matt Wells asked journalists and social media experts how to solve newspapers' problems in the 21st Century",
  "id": "media/pda/2009/jul/08/journalism-internet-socialmedia-businessmodels",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}