{
  "content": "Jonathan Schwartz has tweeted his last goodbye to Sun Microsystems, the computer company that he wasn't quite able to rescue from its own weight of expectations. Schwartz took over as CEO from Scott McNealy, one of the company's founders, in 2006. At the time McNealy was seen as having been too tied to having big fights with Microsoft, but more importantly to the idea that Sun, despite its \"Microsystems\" name, was too wedded to the idea of selling Big Iron with Expensive Operating Systems to companies that didn't have the budget or the inclination to buy both. Though Sun flourished during the first dot-com boom, when having one of those funky purple Sun cabinets was all the rage and tweaking Solaris to run your web shop just that little bit faster was everyone's idea of a fun night in, the coming of cheap hardware, plus the emergence of Apache, Linux, MySQL and PHP/Perl meant that lots of startup companies could instead spend next to zero on software and kit, and just get the job done. Schwartz was thus in an impossible position, and though he tried hard by embracing open source, the reality was that Sun's products were always going to be niche. Fake Steve Jobs - aka Dan Lyons of Newsweek - fed the snark by dubbing Schwartz \"My Little Pony\" (because of his ponytail - which, let's admit it, is never a good idea on a man; if you have any doubts at all, discuss at Ask Hadley). Schwartz though had bigger problems and the layoffs at Sun made it look like the end would be brutal. Instead Oracle bought it (snatching it from IBM), which simply made it a brutal continuation. And so to Schwartz's farewell. Rather than McNealy's wordy letter, a sort of My Way to shareholders and staff, Schwartz chose the much more abbreviated form of a tweet - in haiku. \"Financial crisis/Stalled too many customers/CEO no more,\" he wrote. Nice to be able to blame the financial crisis - though he could equally well have written \"Price of our hardware/Return on expenditure/Unbridgeable gap\". OK, you have a go. Can you explain Sun's demise, in haiku? (Just as a reminder, it's 5 syllables, 7 syllables, 5 syllables. Bonus points if you write it in Japanese. Though we can't actually read Japanese.)",
  "title": "Jonathan Schwartz tweets his last goodbye to Sun Microsystems",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/sun-microsystems",
    "technology/oracle",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "And in a haiku form, no less. But could you perhaps do better than he did to explain the failure of the company to thrive?",
  "id": "technology/blog/2010/feb/04/jonathan-schwartz-sun-microsystems-tweet-ceo-resignation",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}