{
  "content": "One law for the tabloids; one law for the rest of us. The thinking is familiar, but this time the law, has in effect, been turned on its head. The current spate of gagging orders mean that tabloid newspapers can't reveal which famous people slept with which \u2013 but you can read all about it on Twitter. And once it's up there, in all its 140-character court-defying glory, it can't be taken away, even as in the case of Jemima Khan, the stories are all wrong. Can anybody stop supposedly secret details about the injunctions spreading? At first glance, it appears not. Twitter says it is not a publisher; it is piece of software, its terms of service say: \"By submitting, posting or displaying content on or through the services, you grant us a worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free licence\". Or to put it another way - don't blame us for this - they are the unedited words of the author. Now, that point has not yet been tested in a UK court \u2013 but the closest analogous case appears helpful to Twitter. A 2009 ruling, Metropolitan International Schools v Designtechnica and Google, where Mr Justice Eady held that a search engine was not a publisher under common law. The result of that case was that Google could not be held liable when it came to defamation because it had not published the material that appeared on its website. There's part of this that is faintly annoying. Twitter, after all, wants to make to make money from your tweets by selling advertising. The company operates a privacy policy where you can \"report privacy violations\" and \"harassment\", although its list of violations include things like \"credit card information\" rather than \"he said I shagged him when I didn't\". Twitter shows no sign of trying to get anybody to comply with its privacy code (what would happen if Khan tried?). But, despite all these niggles, that's where the law probably lies; Twitter is not a publisher. Twitter, also has obvious legal advantages, because it is based in California and has little to no legal presence here. A court could try to serve it with one of the injunctions. Except, from a quick glance at Companies House, there is no UK company to serve it on. The servers probably aren't in the UK; nether are any meaningful assets, or a lot of employees (even trying to get any answers out of Twitter for us journalists seems to be nigh on impossible, but one lives in hope). Interestingly, by the way, even in the Google case referred to above, it emerged that you couldn't meaningfully serve a libel writ on Google UK Ltd, despite its staff and large headquarters in Victoria, London. That's because it could not be held to have any control over the search engine, which is run out of the US by another legal entity, parent company Google Inc. Of course, since 1776 (arguably) and 1783 (definitely) the US, its citizens and companies, have been able to ignore the rulings of the UK courts, on account of being a separate country. That sort of thinking underlied the US Speech Act \u2013 in effect a statement by the US that it was not prepared to see its publications bound by often draconian judgements of the British libel courts. Bear in mind, though, the Speech Act does not apply when it comes to injunctions. Clearly, real life is a bit more subtle than this, but if a company (like Twitter) has no particular assets or directors in the UK, then it has relatively little to risk by ignoring an injunction from this country. British courts are usually mindful of this and are cautious about making orders that will make them look powerless. That's why it was surprising that Mr Justice Tugendhat allowed Louis Bacon, a hedge fund manager, to use the British courts to serve an order (not an injunction \u2013 more on this shortly) on the Denver Post, Wikipedia and the company that hosts the WordPress blog site, Automattic. We shall see if the three who have been served choose to comply with Bacon's request. But the Bacon case is interesting in the context of wilfully broken injunctions for another reason. If Twitter can duck all legal liability, it is certainly not the case that the authors of tweets that bust injunctions can. Any newspaper journalist revealing the identity of married footballers/actors/TV presenters is almost certainly at risk of contempt of court, for which the punishment is good old-fashioned jail. That's because the journalists' newspapers have been notified of the existence of the injunctions. Any member of the public who can clearly be identified may well be at risk too, although it might be possible to plead ignorance until you were notified. But given that most people are deliberately breaking the injunction, that defence doesn't really cut it. Of course, anonymous tweeters are a different category \u2013 the source of the latest flurry of injunction chat on Twitter comes from an unidentified user. But \u2013 again \u2013 being anonymous may not last. As Twitter itself says: \"We may disclose your information if we believe that it is reasonably necessary to comply with a law, regulation or legal request\". The Bacon judgment referred to above allowed the UK courts to demand that the three websites targeted reveal the true identity of individuals behind anonymous postings that were allegedly defamatory. If Twitter were presented with such an order, which is increasing likely in the current climate, will it comply? [Dear Twitter \u2013 answers gratefully received.] Mind you, it is not obvious that either the courts, or the lawyers representing the celebrities will bother. Details of the Andrew Marr story were revealed on the Guido Fawkes website long before the injunction was dropped (Guido, aka Paul Staines is careful, as I understand it, to base his site and his business offshore). Nor it is not obvious that the courts can be bothered to injunct some websites. However, Twitter is so popular that a test case seems not very far away. Until then, though, a curious situation has emerged. One law has emerged to gag the tabloid press from certain kiss-and-tell stories. Then the basic (\"who and who?\") facts emerge unsuppressed online, once information about the injunction leaks. All, then, that tabloids can do is report on the existence of the leaks, but can't print the full stories they were prepared to pay for in the first place. Twitter emerges as a winner of sorts from this battle \u2013 a battle that British tabloids usually win. So, if you want to sell a kiss and tell, it might be legally safer to publish it anonymously on Twitter (if you can find a buyer, that is). And as for the tabloids, if you can't get a story past an injunction, what next? Set up an anonymous site just to get the name of the married shagging celebrity out there....",
  "title": "Injunctions, Twitter and the law",
  "lead": "Dan Sabbagh: So, can the courts stop all this injunction-busting chat on Twitter? And can tweeters be made liable?",
  "tags": [
    "media/medialaw",
    "media/blogging",
    "media/media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "law/superinjunctions",
    "law/law",
    "law/injunctions"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/organgrinder/2011/may/09/injunctions-twitter-law",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}