{
  "content": "There are two types of secrets. There are the ones you keep to protect your self-interest \u2013 I'm using company time to look for a new job, say, or I'm cheating on my spouse. And there are the sentimental secrets, which you keep because they break a social taboo \u2013 as in, I love one of my children more than the other, or I don't give a toss about recycling. To these staples of evasion we may now add a third category: the fake secret, given life this year, albeit accidentally, by apps like Secret and Whisper, which encourage users to amuse themselves and each other by sharing cute, shocking or whistle-blowing confidences, under the shield of anonymity and in even hotterpursuit of shares, likes and comments than on Facebook. For example, from Secret: I sometimes drop acid during chemistry class. My secret: I'm the teacher. And: I like to eat illegal black market horse meat. As well as: I'm a famous celebrity and ... Yeah, but you're not, though, are you? And you probably don't eat horse meat, which is in any case legal in the US. And if you \"drop acid\" in your chemistry class, it's probably the chemistry class of your mind, after binging on one too many hours of Breaking Bad. On April Fools' Day this week, as one cast an even more jaded eye than usual over the contents of the internet, it was these mobile indulgences built for attracting attention at all costs, that appeared to be comprised almost entirely of makey-uppy contributions by strangers chasing the thrill of approval. We have come to expect fakery from every public forum, starting with the guests on TV chat shows, and ending with hoaxes on Twitter. But in the few months since the launch of Secret and apps like it, the bogusness of the postings has underlined that weird phenomenon, the pursuit of anonymous fame: a like is a like is a like. And it doesn't much matter what you say to acquire it. The original online confessional, PostSecret, launched 10 years ago, before user approval got off the ground. It was a curated site that grew out of a community art project asking people to write and send in physical postcards spilling a secret. Each secret conformed to the standard definition \u2013 My mom killed my dad long before he killed himself, and He's been in prison for two years because of what I did. Nine more to go. Many of the contributions sounded tweaked to entertain, like a creative writing exercise in which you have to tell a story with a twist in a couple of sentences. And without context, they were meaningless. But the novelty of the exercise gave it a kind of frisson, and the sheer hassle of writing and sending in a postcard inclined one to believe they might be true. Since then, the very idea of what is appropriate to keep to oneself and what to share has been transformed; not because we are less secretive \u2013 the tuna salad you had for lunch wasn't exactly off the record before you posted a picture of it on Facebook - but because the novelty of sharing has radically lowered the bar on what constitutes transmissible information. As the ease with which one can post one's every waking thought \u2013 or in the case of Truth, the newest of the secrecy apps, send a message anonymously \u2013 has grown, so, too, has the temptation to ham upjust about everything, to provoke a reaction. Secret's lofty mission statement is \"to not build only an app, but a platform that will bring more authenticity, self-awareness and empathy to the world.\" In reality, the reverse has happened. Early adopters were generally Silicon Valley types, bitching about their workplaces and spreading false acquisitions rumours. Then came the second wave of wannabe comedians: I have great eye-hand coordination and play sports almost daily. But, for some reason, I CAN'T HIGH FIVE. And, finally, the purveyors of bumper-sticker wisdom: Standing up for someone is one of the best feelings in the world. Thank god someone came out and said it, at last. As we know by now, as often as anonymity encourages honesty, it enables the exact opposite \u2013 personas entirely at odds with the real profile behind them. Which is why most trolls, when and if they are tracked down, turn out to be harmless teenagers or the kinds of guys who furtively eat lunch from a plastic bag in the library. In the case of Whisper and Secret, there is a lot of wish fulfillment, self-aggrandizement and the occasional real story \u2013 if not a secret exactly, then an early press release. As Gawker reported this week, Keith Rabois, the former COO of Square, is launching a new property website called Homerun, and came onto Secret to confirm it. It's tough to get excited about, but at least it is true. For its part, Whisper has hired Neetzan Zimmerman, the former Gawker wizard who promises to deliver lots more real stories \u2026 by way of Buzzfeed. Meanwhile, the only indication of the promised consciousness-raising element on Secret \u2013 the \"empathy\" bit about a problem shared \u2013 is a big sub-category of people posting secrets about unreported crimes. A popular posting there: I've never been able to tell anyone I've been sexually assaulted. But without verification or anything else to go on \u2013 and arriving in between the guy who says he's a celebrity and the woman who says Nobody knows I'm a diagnosed psychopath \u2013 the promise of a fourth kind of secret, a useful lifting of the lid on certain kinds of victimhood, iskilled by banality or glibness. We are encouraged more than ever to tell our secrets out loud \u2013 or at least on screen. And what we tell, for the most part, is fantasy, which plenty of analysts would say is more revealing, but that isn't the point. The only secret, it turns out, is that it's fun to lie in public.",
  "title": "Shh, don't tell: secret-sharing apps are all the rage, but they're also full of lies | Emma Brockes",
  "lead": "Emma Brockes: Whisper and Secret feed our Facebook impulses to share all. Their anonymity grants license to fakery",
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/apr/04/secret-sharing-apps-whisper-secret-lies",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}