{
  "content": "The new Speaker took on the government for the first time yesterday. Gordon Brown had hoped to sneak out a written statement on cybercrime and security. The Tories objected, and John Bercow had a minister hauled into the house to explain what was going on. A small triumph, perhaps, but a sign of things to come. Admittedly whoever is home secretary this week didn't turn up (the government gets through home secretaries like most families get through jars of Marmite: each lasts a little over a year), but two former holders of the office \u2013 David Blunkett and Jacqui Smith \u2013 were there. The questions were fielded by David Hanson who is, and I have no reason to doubt this, minister of state in the home department. I had never previously heard of Mr Hanson, which I am sure reflects more on me than on him. On the other hand I wondered whether Mr Brown has now started to parachute people into the Commons as well as the Lords. Once you have established the principle that any old bod can join the government, you might as well slot them in where you can. And there are so many New Labour MPs hanging about that one more can't make much difference. Nobody would be so rude as to ask Mr Hanson if he was a member, so he could use the tea room, the toilets and a ministerial office without anyone stopping him. He explained the nature of the cyberthreat. It sounds horrible. Terrorists are developing the technology and will soon be able to attack all our computers. Already cybercrime costs \u00a352bn worldwide (where do they get these figures?) Some British companies were being cyber-robbed of up to a million pounds. If knowing the jargon means getting on top of the problem, we are halfway there. Mr Hanson talked about cyber-security policy issues, cyber-security skills and a cyber industrial strategy. The most alarming thing in his statement was the fact that all these matters are to be handled by the Home Office, one of the most incompetent of all government departments, which is saying plenty. Crispin Blunt, the Tory shadow, is never knowingly under-cyberpanicked. For the prime minister to be absent was not only a disgrace but, \"more alarmingly, shambolic!\" Ministers were supposed to be keeping us safe, and yet were incapable of releasing public policy in an orderly fashion. He made it sound as if a routine piece of New Labour subterfuge was going to see us all bombed in our beds. Later Tom Watson said that the greater problem was other countries hacking into British systems. We needed GCHQ to be full of geeks who could outwit the Chinese. I asked a friend who has contacts in GCHQ and he said that the geek quotient there was already \"95% \u2013 and climbing\". That's encouraging. I would rather trust a cyber-geek than any government minister.",
  "title": "Simon Hoggart's sketch: Never knowingly under-cyberpanicked",
  "lead": "Simon Hoggart: The most alarming thing in David Hanson's statement to the Commons is that all of these cyber-security matters are to be handled by the Home Office",
  "tags": [
    "technology/politics",
    "technology/hacking",
    "politics/houseofcommons",
    "politics/labour",
    "politics/politics",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "politics/2009/jun/26/simon-hoggart-commons-cyber-crime",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}