{
  "content": "Your articles on a draft Europe-US agreement \u2013 which creates a framework for data exchange on air passengers \u2013 overplayed the purposes of the accord (US to store data of transatlantic passengers for 15 years, 26 May; Clarke defends EU deal with US on air passenger data, 27 May). You state: \"The personal data of millions of passengers who fly between the US and Europe, including credit card details, phone numbers and home addresses, may be stored by the US department of homeland security for 15 years.\" This implies that the purpose of this agreement is merely for some Orwellian storing of data for its own sake. In fact, the interim Passenger Name Record (PNR) agreement has proven incredibly effective at combating serious crime and terrorism. I am the lead MEP on a similar agreement for flights within the EU, and I want to ensure the debate balances civil liberties concerns with the potential for saving many lives and preventing others from being shattered. The value of PNR data is undeniable. Belgium reported that 95% of all drug seizures in 2009 were predominantly due to it. The UK used this data in the case of David Headley, the terrorist facilitator convicted in the US of involvement in the Mumbai attacks. A number of other potential terrorist incidents have been foiled because of it. The use of PNR through the e-borders scheme has led to the refusal of entry and detention of many people, including 57 for murder, 175 for rape/sexual assault, 25 for kidnapping, 441 for fraud, 397 for drugs offences and 920 for violence. In countries such as Australia this data has been noted as incredibly important for the detection of criminals, for stopping the trafficking of people and drugs, and for capturing sex offenders. Your articles did not mention these successes. The US is our closest security ally. Its analysis of information provided by PNR or through the Terrorist Finance Tracking programme has foiled plots in the EU. This is not a one-sided transfer of data across the Atlantic, but a partnership. Unfortunately your articles, and too often the tone of discussions in the European parliament, fail to reflect that. You report objections that \"the agreement left the 'door wide open' for the use of the personal data ... for 'mission creep' purposes way beyond combating terrorism and serious crimes\". I would argue the opposite: this framework creates clear legal and administrative rights. The 19 fields of information that are handed over by the passenger are already submitted on their ticket and booking information. The Americans are not asking for any more. And the data will be made anonymous after five years, only to be reactivated if a serious criminal investigation is taking place. There are also strict guidelines as to who can access the data. While it is right to question any agreement that calls upon the collection of our data, I hope we can agree that continuing to work towards the best possible PNR agreement between the EU and US is in all of our interests.",
  "title": "Response: Don't ignore the value of air passenger data in fighting crime",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "us-news/us-national-security",
    "world/air-transport",
    "world/eu",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "uk/uksecurity",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "law/law",
    "politics/kenneth-clarke"
  ],
  "lead": " Britain's information swap with the US protects both civil liberties and human life, says Timothy Kirkhope",
  "id": "commentisfree/2011/jun/10/us-national-security-air-transport",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}