{
  "content": "The confirmation of Steven Gerrard's departure from Liverpool at the end of the season has sent social media into overdrive with supporters, team-mates, players, former professionals and managers leading the tributes. Liverpool got the ball rolling themselves, confirming what was widely reported on New Year's Day, that Gerrard will be calling time on his career at Anfield in the summer, with gushing praise from the Reds' manager, Brendan Rodgers, and the club's owners swiftly following. No less than 23 of his Liverpool team-mates were also quoted on their official website with Mario Balotelli saying: \"Wow. I think of him as being at the same level as Pirlo \u2026 Stevie can do anything, he's an amazing player.\" Martin Skrtel chose a more succinct tribute, simply stating: 'Stevie is special.\" Gerrard's former Liverpool midfield partner, Dietmar Hamann, was among the first to comment on Twitter. Liverpool then quoted the man himself, who claimed it was not a decision he took lightly. A recurring theme throughout was whether Gerrard is the best player to ever play for Liverpool \u2013 John Aldridge certainly thinks so. While numerous former team-mates labelled Gerrard the best player they have shared a pitch with. Another source of debate has been where Gerrard ranks in the best players of the Premier League era. While Michael Owen struggled to come to terms with the news. The former Swindon striker Jan Aage Fjortoft revealed that the news has not only sent shockwaves through England. And Manchester City Women's and England's Toni Duggan is hoping Gerrard, heavily linked with a move to the MLS, follows the same path as Frank Lampard. Bayern Munich's Xabi Alonso took the Skrtel less is more approach. While Lucas Leiva is certainly going to miss Gerrard when he goes. Pepe Reina was in no doubt as to who the best ever Kop hero is. And another recurring theme has been to praise Gerrard the man as well as Gerrard the leader.",
  "title": "Steven Gerrard confirms he will leave Liverpool: how Twitter reacted",
  "lead": "The confirmation of Steven Gerrard's departure from Liverpool at the end of the season has sent social media into overdrive with supporters, team-mates, players, former professionals and managers leading the tributes",
  "tags": [
    "football/steven-gerrard",
    "football/liverpool",
    "football/football",
    "sport/sport",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "football/2015/jan/02/steven-gerrard-liverpool-reaction-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}