{
  "content": "We're experimenting with different launch times for the Boot Up series. We'll fix on a time within the next week. A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team Rogue employee turns gaming network into private Bitcoin mine &gt;&gt; Wired.com If you've been playing Counter-Strike on the ESEA gaming network, you've been doing a lot more than tossing virtual hand grenades and firing virtual machine guns. You've been mining Bitcoins for an unnamed staffer inside the company that runs the network. The mining started on April 13 and may have affected as many as 14,000 gamers. Possibly illegal. Isn't it time someone wrote a book about \"rogue employees\"? News International, Google, and now ESEA... IDC: Android now leads the tablet market with a 56.5% share &gt;&gt; Android Central Jerry Hildenbrand: These sorts of numbers make CEOs and people who count pennies pretty happy, and will be the fuel for fanboy wars across the Internet, but why are they important? I'll tell you why - because the available selection of applications designed for Android tablets sucks. Google keeps telling developers exactly how to build their app to take advantage of the real estate on a tablet, but because there weren't that many out there, nobody listened. Sure, there are some really great applications done \"right\" and look fabulous on our tablets, but most of them are just the phone version blown up to fill the seven or ten inch screen on your tablet with unused white space. Have a look at iPad apps, and you'll know exactly what I mean. Hopefully, with more Android tablets being sold than any others, developers will take notice and change this. Only if they can monetise those apps. If they can't, then all that happens is that people have some cheap Android tablets and some blown-up apps, because why bother? (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.) Worldwide tablet market surges ahead on strong first quarter sales &gt;&gt; IDC \"Sustained demand for the iPad mini and increasingly strong commercial shipments led to a better-than expected first quarter for Apple,\" said Tom Mainelli, Research Director, Tablets at IDC. \"In addition, by moving the iPad launch to the fourth quarter of 2012, Apple seems to have avoided the typical first-quarter slowdown that traditionally occurred when consumers held off buying in January and February in anticipation of a new product launch in March.\" 49.2m total: more than desktops, and about equal with laptops. Apple's market share fell below 40% - but the market is growing so fast that in terms of actual units sold (comparing 1Q 2012 and 1Q 2013) it shifted nearly as many extra tablets year-on-year as Samsung did in the whole quarter (7.7m v 8.8m). The big difference is in \"Others\" - which now make nearly a third of the market, compared to a quarter a year before. Those are the cheaper Android tablets which are going to overtake the market this year. Window Socket \u2013 solar energy powered socket by Kyuho Song &amp; Boa Oh &gt;&gt; Yanko Design Neat idea: a tiny solar panel that sticks onto a window and which you can then plug devices into. However, the total storage is only 1000mAh; it's not going to run your laptop. Mobile phone, perhaps - once it's charged. (Thanks @slimbowski for the pointer.) Mobile phone data redraws bus routes in Africa &gt;&gt; BBC News Researchers at IBM have redrawn the bus routes of Ivory Coast's largest city using mobile phone data. The research was completed as part of the Data for Development competition run by Orange which released 2.5bn call records from 5m mobile phone users in Ivory Coast. The anonymised data is the largest of its kind ever released. Such data could be used by urban planners for new infrastructure projects, said IBM. Discovery: they could reduce travel times for people by 10%. If they could have integrated it with bus timetables.. Ghana's ISPs are dying out because the mobile web is booming &gt;&gt; Quartz Ghana boasts Africa's highest penetration of mobile broadband, at 23% of the population in 2011, the latest year for which figures are available. That compares with just 7% in 2010. By contrast, fixed-broadband penetration stood at a negligible 0.3% in 2011, and that's killing Ghana's internet service providers (ISPs). For a time, running an ISP was a trendy thing. Some 150 companies presently have a license, and about 20 are operational. But many of them are finding it hard to stay afloat. Even cyber caf\u00e9s, many of which are run by ISPs, are beginning to shut down. Ghana's biggest, which had 100 connections and its own satellite connection, closed in February. One would guess that mobile broadband is a lot higher than 23% by 2013. Another unexpected consequence of the rise of the smartphone: in effect, it drives arbitrage between pricing of mobile and fixed broadband. I'm still here: back online after a year without the internet &gt;&gt; The Verge Paul Miller: I was wrong. One year ago I left the internet. I thought it was making me unproductive. I thought it lacked meaning. I thought it was \"corrupting my soul.\" It's a been a year now since I \"surfed the web\" or \"checked my email\" or \"liked\" anything with a figurative rather than literal thumbs up. I've managed to stay disconnected, just like I planned. I'm internet free. And now I'm supposed to tell you how it solved all my problems. I'm supposed to be enlightened. I'm supposed to be more \"real,\" now. More perfect. But instead it's 8PM and I just woke up. His experiment seems to indicate that actually you're pretty much the same person whether on or off the internet; but there's a post-connect or -disconnect phase when you behave quite differently. HTC and Samsung &gt;&gt; Benedict Evans Both companies disclose a 'sales and marketing' line. For Samsung this includes activities for the TV and domestic appliance divisions, but the way the spending has grown in recent years suggests that the great majority of the spending is for mobile - and of course the brand is the same anyway, so advertising for TVs will also bleed across to phones. Where is this money going? Well, Samsung discloses a split in the 'sales and marketing' line - around 40% is advertising and the rest is 'sales promotion expenses' - a lot of which is sales commissions. In Q4 2012 Samsung's budget was 13 times HTC's. Samsung hasn't disclosed the Q1 number yet, but if it dropped to, say, $2.5bn in Q1, the same proportionate shift as at the beginning of 2012, it would be about 19 times bigger Dumped! by Google &gt;&gt; The Last Word On Nothing Tienlen Ho: In case you're wondering, in the end, I was fortunate. By Monday, a Googler filed the right internal escalation paperwork on my behalf and on Tuesday morning, six days after I lost access to my account, relayed that it had been restored. My data was intact save for the last thing I'd worked on\u2013a spreadsheet containing a client's account numbers and passwords. It seems that Google's engineers determined this single document violated policy and locked down my entire account. My request to get that document back is still pending. I returned to the Google fold with eyes wide open to my responsibilities as a user. In relationship terms, I am no longer monogamous. \"Dependence on one supplier\" is the new monoculture. You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free Delicious service.",
  "title": "Boot up: Bitcoin gaming, Android leads tablets, a year offline, and more",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/bitcoin",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/htc",
    "technology/samsung",
    "technology/cryptocurrencies"
  ],
  "lead": "Charles Arthur: Plus mapping bus routes via mobile, Ghana's ISP woes, HTC v Samsung, what not to put in Google Docs, and more",
  "id": "technology/blog/2013/may/03/technology-links-newsbucket",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}