{
  "content": "\"There is a new front in the battle against identity theft\", the front page of the Independent warned. \"Millions of young people have made themselves vulnerable to identity theft as well as putting their future academic and professional prospects at risk by recklessly posting personal information on the internet.\" The young people of today, eh? Posting their dates of birth on internet sites, instead of collating them in a database, together with the full details of 25 million others, and losing them via mail courier. Accounts? I've had a few. Facebook, Myspace, YouTube, Flickr, I've got them all and more. Blogs? I've got several, thanks - type me into Google you'll get a gaggle of me. Pictures? I've got galleries, mate - did you want to see me half-cut? Want to be my friend? Go ahead, let's be cyber buddies. Want to steal my identity, though, and you're going to have to break into my house, snatch my handbag, track my keystrokes when I'm shopping online or send me an email telling me that I'm the winner of a Nicaraguan lottery and requesting full bank details tout suite. Social networking sites are forums for posting a load of rubbish that only your friends (and sometimes not even them) would be interested in. Show me a Facebook with a regulation passport photo, itemised bank details, address, postcode, password, middle name, mother's maiden name and secret security code and in return I'll show you a unicorn in flagrante with a leprechaun. And even if fraudsters could thieve your mobile number and email address, to give the criminals credit, they have bigger safes to crack than the online identities of teenagers - and more efficient ways of doing it. The Spectator columnist, Toby Young, has punctured this sort of Facebook/identity theft paranoia brilliantly. In October, Young received a friend request from someone called Amba. (Young has 905 friends on Facebook - he isn't choosy.) The following day, he received an email from an assistant producer at the BBC, informing him that he had been targeted by Watchdog for a story they planned to run, on the danger of identity fraud on social networking sites. There was no Amba. \"Amba\" was a tool to show how easy it would be for a fraudster to gather personal details and steal Young's identity. Offered a wad of cash, Young agreed to be interviewed on the show: \"During my interview,' Young recalls, the presenter of Watchdog, Julia Bradbury, \"introduced me to a 'cyber investigator' ... who then revealed what he'd been able to find out about me armed with the information 'Amba' had gleaned from my Facebook profile.\" \"Is that your phone number?\" he asked, pointing to some digits on a computer printout. \"Yes,\" I conceded, \"but, then, I'm not ex-directory. You could have got that out of the phone book.\" \"How about that?\" he said. \"Is that your home address?\" \"Yes, but that's in the phone book, too.\" Young went on to reject the significance of all the other evidence accumulated against him by pointing out that he'd already written two volumes of memoirs and \"actually want[ed] people to start going round impersonating me. Having people pretend to be you is a sign that you've arrived in our society.\" Most people probably wouldn't go that far, but there's no denying that identity fraud can be perpetrated entirely without the help of Facebook - or the annoyance of having to wade through the walls, Funwalls, Superwalls and Ilike applications. The second element of the panic, however, may at first seem harder to rebut. Although Facebook isn't a forum for methodically exhibiting your bank statements, it is a forum for advertising yourself. And, it is true, that some people will not like the version of yourself you advertise. Your boss or your lecturer might not like it if, for instance, they can see that you're lathered every night of the week. They might think that it demonstrates inadequate commitment to your work. Scare stories of people's private lives coming back to wreck their professional lives via social networking sites grow by the day. But people - particularly young people - need to wise up. No one can fire you for posting pictures of your drunken exploits on a website. Try taking them to an employment tribunal. On the other hand, if your boss is hitting F5 every five minutes to see what new atrocity you've committed online, Facebook probably did you a favour - why would you want to work for him? And never mind that you're spending too much time online - what's he doing with his day? Any problem that could arise in your life as a result of Facebook, could arise in your life just as easily by other methods. All these ostensibly \"new\" phenomena are really old phenomena dressed up in blue and white pixels. Slagged off your boss on MySpace? That's called \"having one too many at the Christmas party and talking too loudly\". Those Facebook photos of you doing lots of things you shouldn't? That's called photocopying your arse on the photocopier and leaving a paper trail down the corridor. The Independent article featured a quote from a \"worried 16-year-old girl from Yorkshire\". \"I had a blog a couple of years ago and want to delete it - but I can't, and I had personal details on it.\" The poor hen needs to be given a sedative. What, at 14, can these \"personal details\" have been - that she pashed with Darren on the school bus? That her cat's called Tiddles and she wuvvle-luvvles him? Why scare the bejesus out of children who are trying to have a bit of online fun? There may be plenty of reasons to get paranoid about the use and abuse of personal information in cyberspace, but teenagers' posting their dates of birth and mobile numbers on social networking sites isn't one of them.",
  "title": "Stop being paranoid",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/blogging"
  ],
  "lead": "Emily Hill: The concern about identity theft has moved on to social networking sites; but you could be defrauded anywhere. Stop limiting teenagers' lives",
  "id": "commentisfree/2007/nov/26/stopbeingparanoid",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}