{
  "content": "President Obama has unveiled sweeping new plans to guard vital US computer networks and data from online attack, announcing a new post of \"cyber-tsar\" and a strategy for dealing with what he called \"weapons of mass disruption\". After a succession of hacking and other episodes have laid bare the gaping holes in America's online security, Obama called cybersecurity \"one of the most serious economic and national security challenges we face,\" and said he was establishing a White House office to deal with it. \"Cyberspace is real, and so is the risk that comes with it,\" the president said, adding that the new cybersecurity chief would oversee and coordinate internet defences across government. Separately, the New York Times reported that the Pentagon plans to create a new military command for cyberspace, stepping up preparations by the armed forces to conduct both offensive and defensive computer warfare. The unit would complement Obama's civilian structure in the White House, the paper said. Obama did not mention the military aspect of cyber-security. \"From now on our digital infrastructure will be treated as a strategic national asset,\" Obama said. \"Protecting this infrastructure will be a national security priority. We will deter, prevent, detect and defend against attacks and recover quickly.\" The decision to appoint an individual to orchestrate cyberdefence is the result of a 60-day review into the country's online security, conducted by former Bush administration adviser Melissa Hathaway. The report, which has been in the hands of White House officials for the past month, details America's weak points and suggests a series of improvements that could guard against hackers who want to bring down vital parts of the government, businesses and the communications network. \"It's clear that we're not as prepared as we should be,\" said Obama. \"Just as we failed to invest in our physical infrastructure, we have failed to invest in our digital infrastructure. No single agency has the responsibility or the authority to match the scope and scale of the challenge.\" The appointment of a cybersecurity coordinator is a concerted attempt to improve America's online defence capabilities, bringing together many different strands of security. Until now, different aspects of cyber-defence have been the responsibility of a string of organisations, leaving officials in the National Security Agency, Department of Homeland Security and the Pentagon battling each other for supremacy. The stakes have been raised in recent months with a string of revelations exposing the holes in America's online security. One report suggested that Chinese hackers had successfully infiltrated parts of America's electricity grid, while it was also revealed that hackers had stolen valuable information on the Joint Strike Fighter programme, potentially putting the $300bn scheme - the most expensive military technology project ever - in jeopardy. Evidence about the culprits remains scant, but officials in western governments regularly point the finger at Russia and China, which they claim employ teams of highly-trained hackers who are responsible for many state-sponsored attacks. But it is the threat of a full cyberwar - with large numbers of attacks taking place simultaneously \u2013 that has most worried high-ranking members of government. One senior Nato official said last year that the possibility of cyber warfare should be treated as seriously as the threat of a missile strike, while another expert from the alliance recently told the Guardian that the prospect of a full-blown internet war is \"not science fiction\". The favourite for the cyber-tsar role is not yet clear. Hathaway is among the contenders, but the appointment will itself be subject to political wrangling, with the agencies that it is intended to unite seeing the new position as another way to extend their influence. In this Hathaway, a former National Security Agency official who was first appointed under George W Bush, is not free of baggage. Another contender for the job could be Rod Beckstrom, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur who resigned his post as the director of America's National Cyber Security Center in March, claiming that a lack of support was preventing him from doing the job. Beckstrom told the Guardian that it is not just coordination that is required, but that new investment needs to be pumped in to improve the technologies behind the net and make it harder for hackers to succeed. \"It sounds like boring plumbing work, but it's the only thing that can really make the whole environment more secure,\" he said. \"We need to recognise that the internet is a massive decentralised network, and a collaborative environment. No one is safe on the internet until everyone is safe.\" \"The network is presently wide open to cyber criminals and terrorists who can misrepresent themselves in a thousand different ways\", he added. \"Cyber offence is a thousand times easier than defence - thus breaches are most certainly occurring in all countries, virtually all the time. Nothing should surprise us.\"",
  "title": "Computer security: Obama to appoint 'cybersecurity' chief to secure US networks from attack",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/computing",
    "us-news/obama-administration",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/hacking",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "us-news/us-politics"
  ],
  "lead": "The White House has outlined its plans to secure US computer networks from attack",
  "id": "technology/2009/may/29/obama-cybersecurity",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}