{
  "content": "A new study released by the Archives of Sexual Behavior reports that modern American adults are having sex much less than they did in the 1990s. The drop spans race, age, region, gender, education level, and work status, meaning that in 2017 the only thing all Americans seem to agree on is their lack of interest in touching one another. The researchers behind the study suggest that the decline may be related to both fatigue from working longer hours and the growing number of entertainment alternatives, such as social and streaming media \u2013 giving a new, more literal meaning to the phrase \"Netflix and chill\". Here are nine other possible reasons for the decline: Many American men are abstaining from sex due to concerns that their penises pale in comparison to the eggplant emoji. If you post a picture of yourself having sex to Instagram, the network's administrators just delete it anyway. Why bother doing something you're not going to get any credit for? There's no time to have sex at night because we're busy refreshing Twitter to see what kind of tantrum the president might be having, and we don't have sex during the day because living in a country where the president has late-night Twitter tantrums is massively depressing. Many Americans have pledged to refrain from engaging in any sexual activity until executives at Warner Brothers agree that the films in the DC Extended Universe should have a lighter tone. The emotional release that comes as the result of physical intimacy cannot possibly compare to the deep satisfaction felt when completing an adult coloring book. It's hard to get aroused knowing that your Amazon Echo is listening from the living room and the CIA is listening through your Samsung TV. Republican couples are fearful of provoking the ire of Paul Ryan by engaging in an activity that might add to the country's population while he is working so hard to drastically reduce it. Snapchat has yet to release a filter that makes your genitalia look like an anime character. Americans are actually having as much sex as ever, but they lowballed their answers because of the weird way the scientist conducting the study winked after asking each question on the survey.",
  "title": "Why are Americans having less sex? Blame eggplant emojis \u2013 or Paul Ryan",
  "lead": "As a study finds that American adults are having less sex than they did in the 1990s, Thomas Batten offers some theories to explain the phenomenon",
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/sex",
    "media/social-media",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "lifeandstyle/2017/mar/08/sex-americans-social-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}