{
  "content": "An anecdotal piece on News.com.au today implicitly blames social media for the \"up to 40%\" of Australia's youth unemployment rate. \"Gen-Yersf are likely to send a text message, email or post on Facebook if they are sick instead of phoning the boss\", it explains. \"Employers complain that many have never worked a day in their life, still live at home well into their 20s and, when they do get a job, don't know how to behave properly\". With the references to our supposedly anti-social behaviour and short attention spans, the tired old subtext is clear: technology has turned young people into useless, self-centred idiots. This is a damaging narrative, one that tries to disempower Gen Y; but we know better than to believe it. Take it from this 20-something writer: anyone who posts on Facebook to call in sick is an idiot, and deserves to be fired. The eternal obsession with how awful kids are these days is a manifestation of anxiety and regret on the part of the grown-ups. Somehow, whenever somebody notices the world is going to hell in a handbasket, instead of looking at how society might try to change itself, the time comes to gaze upon the face of the \"yoof\" and point out how much worse they're going to make things. Every generation looks at the next one and sees the vapid, self-involved twits they themselves once were, and is seized by terror at the thought of these people one day running the joint. Either they'll still be vapid, self-involved twits by then, or they'll have grown up (as they are bound to do), and you'll be dead. This is exacerbated by the cultural artifacts every generation uses to confound and bemuse their elders. Smartphones. MTV. Rock'n'roll. Chewing gum. Video games. Every new phenomenon heralds a decade of concern-trolling thinkpieces about bad habits and the doom of a generation. It's Trouble! Television is Americaniz -- Americanising our Aussie kids! Texting is compromising their ability to spell properly! Having cameras with them 24/7 and numerical value attached to their social circles is giving them narcissistic personality disorder! It's perfectly legitimate to point out to young people new to the workforce that if you're calling in sick, actually calling in is pretty standard. It's perfectly legitimate to worry that young people are so dedicated to documenting their lives that they're forgetting to \"live\" it, whatever that might entail. But it's unfair to trumpet a generation as \"digital natives\", and then chastise us for spending so much time in our native country. As Joel Stein's recent thoughtful piece in TIME explains, we are children of the self-esteem movement; we're told we're special and can be whatever we want, and then have even farther to fall when we make the necessary discovery that we're pretty normal and should really just try and get on with things. Of course, workplaces are going to change. It's often fine, in my industry, to start an email to someone you've never met with \"Hey lady!\", and potential employers might ask you during an interview to log into your Facebook account so they can see if you do things in your private life they don't like. Many of the jobs that people my age dreamed about doing \u2013 teacher, scientist, social worker, police officer, journalist, nurse, artist \u2013 are no longer valued (socially or monetarily) the way they once were. Hobbies and jokes can turn into money and jobs at the whim of the internet. Nobody could have predicted the era of hope, innovation and ideals sparked by the generation who grew up during WWII, just like nobody could have predicted the art and social freedoms created by the boomers's rejection of the establishment. We are told daily by the older folk who run things that everything is terrible, and that we're all doomed. But just as they did all those eons ago, we will eventually poke our heads out of the handbasket and spend the rest of our lives trying to slow its progress, while the previous ones are in there wondering where you might be off to. And we, too, will be convinced that the next lot are the worst yet.",
  "title": "In defence of Australia's Gen Y | Caitlin Welsh",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "australia-news/australia-news",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "society/society"
  ],
  "lead": "Caitlin Welsh: Has technology really turned young people into useless idiots? This is a damaging narrative, and we Gen-Yers know better than to believe it",
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/may/27/in-defence-of-gen-y",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}