{
  "content": "Emojis. Whether you &lt;3 them or they make you feel :(, they have grown and grown since their invention in Japan around the turn of the century. Although it may be too much to call 2015 the first emoji election (or emojilection), this is probably the first time that leaders have come face-to-smiley-face with their electorate in such a way. To track the effect, we have looked at every tweet featuring an emoji that mentioned any of the following: Nigel Farage, David Cameron, Nicola Sturgeon, Ed Miliband and Nick Clegg, between Tuesday 25 November and Friday 12 December last year. This also includes retweets. Only a tiny proportion of tweets contain emojis and one heavily-retweeted cherry blossom can skew the figures. The attachment of the winking face to various #Cameronmustgo tweets is the reason it features so highly here. Our sample of tweets suggests that these are much more likely to be in the \"I'm being sarcastic, get it?\" school of winks rather than anything suggestive. On that note though, perhaps the strangest emoji in the list above is the cherry blossom. This received pickup because it was included in a much retweeted tweet to Cameron, which also involved the handles of two adult movie stars. *Embarrassed face*. This makes it look like Nigel Farage has a lot of support on Twitter although the clapping hands sign is not as good for the Ukip leader as it initially seems. We were collecting tweets when he appeared on Question Time opposite Russell Brand and some of the applause was reserved for the activist comedian's broadsides against the Ukip leader. The GB flag's high ranking is largely driven by one account, @Fight4UK, who repeatedly tweets it alongside pro-Nigel Farage messages. A face crying with laughter as the top emoji tweeted to Ed Miliband is perhaps not a great sign for the Labour leader and a lot of the messages are, as you'd expect, quite mocking in tone. Although it's worth saying that this is also in the top five for every leader besides Nick Clegg. The UK flag here has some pro-Miliband tweets, although a lot of it is pro-Ukip and critical of the Labour leader. Tweets to Nicola Sturgeon are generally quite positive, which does match the swing in the polls towards the Scottish National Party since the referendum and the party leader's high approval ratings. Key events here included her keynote speech to the SNP Woman Conference during this period. A slight note here that even though the emoticon is called \"heavy black heart\", Twitter's emoji here shows up red. Poor Nick Clegg. He does not get tweeted as much and that is most clear from his top emoji being down to a much-retweeted #CameronMustGo post, which has now been deleted (the finger was pointing to Cameron's name, rather than Clegg's). Will the Lib Dem leader be able to untangle his involvement with the Tories from voters' minds by May? The emojis say no. On another note, we are unsure why Nick Clegg gets a crying cat rather than a crying human face like everyone else. \u00af\\_(\u30c4)_/\u00af. Update: Nigel Farage's response Note: we also tracked the tweets of Green party leader Natalie Bennett but not enough emojis were included to involve her in the analysis. Emojis (c) Twitter",
  "title": "What emojis do people tweet at Nigel Farage?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/politics",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/emoji"
  ],
  "lead": "Applause for Nigel Farage and winks for David Cameron? See which emojis are being sent to politicians",
  "id": "news/datablog/2015/jan/13/what-emojis-do-people-tweet-at-nigel-farage",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}