{
  "content": "Lindis Percy has, in police parlance, a lot of form. She may not fit the general stereotype of a political activist, but there must surely be few Britons who have been arrested in political protests as many times as she has. She is a 60-year-old, well-spoken health visitor who is married to an industrial chaplain in Hull. She also has a burning, unquenchable desire to throw American bases out of Britain and to get rid of nuclear weapons. For the past two decades, she has been arrested hundreds of times - too many to count - for continually breaking into American bases in non-violent protests. She has been jailed more than a dozen times, and her last prison sentence was for nine months after she breached a permanent injunction, won by the government, banning her from the huge US spy base at Menwith Hill in Yorkshire. Legal injunctions prevent her from ever entering five American bases in this country again. She is constantly in and out of court, defending herself as well as doggedly mounting legal challenges against the government. She is now being threatened with bankruptcy by the Ministry of Defence for failing to pay legal costs of \u00a350,000. In short, she is a persistent thorn in the side of the Establishment - and a perfect candidate to road-test the 1998 Data Protection Act, at the request of the Guardian. This act gives anyone the right to find out what information is held on them by government departments. Potentially, the act is a powerful tool for British people to check the might of the state, to see what officials are writing about them. Earlier this year, Percy submitted a series of requests to departments asking for all their documents concerning her. This exercise showed how British citizens can get access to the contents of official files on themselves. But it also revealed how the government is making a concerted effort to restrict the documents which are released to the public under the act. The Ministry of Defence released a small batch of papers, dating from 1994, showing how officials had recorded and dealt with her protests. It is obvious that many officials must groan when her name crops up, as it frequently does. Their opinion of her is consistently clear from many of the memos. One, for instance, written on January 24 1997, reveals that Ministry of Defence Police reported : \"Ms Percy has been for many years and continues to be a persistent demonstrator at US establishments in the UK, chiefly by trespassing. She is often detected by US personnel, who restrain her and call for the assistance of UK civilian police forces, usually the Ministry of Defence police. Ms Percy then complains about her treatment by the US servicemen. She also complains against the police officer who attends the scene. There has been a steady trickle of complaints from Ms Percy.\" Eight days earlier, an MoD official had written: \"Lindis Percy is a dedicated anti-US activist who has spent several years in making incursions at various bases and occupying a disproportionate amount of MoD police and US Air Force time and manpower... Her usual technique is to stage a confrontation with police officers or US Air Force security personnel, which she can then exploit, either by making a complaint about their conduct or by seizing on any inconsistency or uncertainty.\" Later, on April 25 1997, the Ministry of Defence Police force wearily noted that \"she is well aware that her activities lead to incidents about which she then complains, and indeed they are one of the reasons for her actions in the first place.\" According to another memo, \"this is a usual tactic adopted by Ms Percy in that she deliberately attempts to provoke a response from the security personnel at MoD sites to use in support of her cause.\" She has been familiar to officials for some time. Back on October 21, 1994, an MoD official wrote that \"she is a persistent trespasser who is dedicated to testing security at a number of MoD sites, particularly those with a US forces connection, and derives satisfaction from challenging and seeking to invalidate MoD military lands bylaws. Menwith Hill station, HMS Forest Moor are her special interests, but she has also been active at Alconbury, Lakenhealth/Mildenhall and Molesworth. She seeks to test, check and embarrass MoD on these matters whenever she can.\" The previous day, a Ministry of Defence Police official had described how she had been arrested a few months earlier on suspicion of theft and criminal damage after police found her in possession of bylaw notices from various military bases. But the prosecution was later stopped because of a lack of evidence. \"She said that she did not intend to deprive the MoD permanently of the bylaw notices. Percy is a 'professional' in these matters and there is no doubt she is aware of how far she can go whilst avoiding prosecution.\" Percy and two other campaigners had been locked in a long battle to prove that the military base bylaws were invalid because the MoD had hurriedly established them without going through the proper procedures. The campaign succeeded: for three years police were unable to arrest peace activists who intruded on to Menwith Hill because the bylaws were invalid. But very few other documents were released to Percy, even though her continual brushes with the authorities over the last 20 years has generated mountains of material. Far more astonishing than the papers she did get to see, were the large volumes of files on her that government departments admitted holding but refused to let her see. In a startling move, two departments listed the titles of files held on her, but refused to divulge the contents. One of them, the Treasury Solicitor's Department, whose lawyers represent the government in court cases, produced a log of 19 such cases in which she had been involved during her protests over the past 12 years. However the department argued that \"these files do not form part of a relevant filing system as described in section 1 of the act so are exempt from the access provisions of the act.\" The department is seeking to keep the contents of the files under wraps by relying on a very narrow, literal interpretation of the act. It is a manoeuvre which has been increasingly promoted by Whitehall mandarins in an attempt to stifle the release of information. Officials have alighted on a line in the act which states that data must be \"part of a relevant filing system\" which is organised, or structured, so that specific information about an individual can be retrieved easily. An internal Whitehall manual produced in October last year, seen by the Guardian, advises civil servants on how to respond to requests under the act. It states that \"recently obtained legal advice suggests that only 'highly structured' files can be said to constitute a 'relevant filing system' within the meaning of the act.\" It advises that such files must refer to \"a specific individual or topic\" and must have \"an internal structure that permits easy access to a particular item... For example, a single file on a person, subdivided by topic or a set of records on a particular subject comprising a number of files on individuals would be a 'relevant filing system'. A single file on an individual containing papers in no particular order or filed chronologically would not.\" Percy however was entering the land of baffling bureaucracy with another department, the office of the Attorney-General. This department listed five records which it held on her activities between 1993 and 2001, saying that this list was the only information to which she was entitled under the act. Percy queried the response and asked for the contents of the records, but the department refused to elaborate on their response. Other responses highlighted the frustrations of the act. Departments are supposed to disclose documents within 40 days of receiving a request under the act. The Crown Prosecution Service released a large wodge to Percy four months after receiving her request. The CPS pleaded that a \"substantial quantity of records\" had been accumulated because she had been involved in many cases around the country. The task of locating and processing all these papers - transcripts of police interviews with her and other bits of evidence - had proved \"somewhat onerous\", according to the CPS. The Ministry of Defence Police, too, admitted that it held a \"considerable amount of data\" on Percy, but there was so much, scattered around its filing cabinets, that it would take too much effort to dig it out. They suggested that she could identify specific incidents to narrow down their search for documents. She did so, but again the Ministry of Defence Police refused to retrieve the information. This time, they argued that the documents on her were exempted from release, as they contained sensitive information to help in the prevention and detection of crime. They repeated their decision that, even if the documents were not covered by this exemption, \"its extraction could only be achieved at disproportionate effort and therefore viewing would not be possible\". Often requesters do not believe that departments have disclosed all the documents that they should do - an unsatisfactory outcome which is difficult for the public to do anything about and does little to inspire confidence in the act. The Foreign Office responded with extracts from a single official document, even though it has on occasions been involved in the government's court cases against Percy. The Foreign Office must have often liaised with the Americans about how to handle Percy's campaign. It is also noticeable that Percy did not receive minutes of a meeting between the British and US governments in June 1994 \"to discuss continuing incursions at US bases and how to deal with on-going US military concerns\". Senior officials from the MoD and the Treasury Solicitor's Department discussed with the Americans various court cases against Percy. They said that she was a \"consistent offender on US bases\", but was likely to escape heavy punishment as \"she presents herself as an innocent, harmless little old lady\". How did Percy know about the contents of this meeting? The minutes had been leaked to her sometime ago, but she didn't find out anything about it through the Data Protection Act. So what did Percy make of it all? She said the amount of documents released was \"extremely thin\". \"I have been involved in these protests for many years and I know that they have generated a tremendous amount of documents at the highest and all levels of these government departments. The act sounds like a good idea, but in reality how it actually works is far from what it should do in an open and transparent society.\" \u00b7 Rob Evans is a Guardian reporter who specialises in freedom of information. \u00b7 Lindis Percy is the co-chair of the Campaign for the accountability of American bases (CAAB).",
  "title": "Base invader",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/freedomofinformation",
    "politics/politics"
  ],
  "lead": "Veteran campaigner Lindis Percy tries to gain access to her data. Rob Evans shows her how.",
  "id": "uk/2002/sep/07/privacy.freedomofinformation",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}