{
  "content": "It could have happened to anyone - anyone who works in an office with a personal computer on their desk, a company email account, and friends who like to forward pictures that they think are funny. That's where John found himself nearly two years ago, working for a financial services company. Someone - no one knows who exactly - forwarded an email containing a series of animated pornographic images. That person forwarded it on to workmates, who then passed it on to their friends. \"I got the email, and so did loads of other people, maybe more than 100,\" says John - who can't use his real name under the terms of the agreement he signed with the company after he was sacked, along with several others, for downloading pornography. \"The email came with an attachment, and when you clicked on it, it started running on your desk-top. I had no idea what it was when it arrived - it came from someone else at the company, with a message saying something like 'have a look at this',\" claims John. But he then showed the attachment to his nearby colleagues, some of whom wanted copies forwarded to their emails. \"It was pretty sick, but I thought it was kind of funny... it was no worse than the things you'd see in a magazine, or even a Sunday paper, probably,\" he says. What happened next wasn't funny. Copies of the emails got into the desktops of management, and at least one member of staff appears to have complained about it. John and others were called in to see their managers, and shown records of when they had received the email, along with details of exactly what they had done with it. \"It was amazing, they had everything there... on paper, showing exactly when I'd opened the emails, how many times I'd looked at it, and who I'd sent it on to.\" Since the company had no official policy of dealing with personal emails and use of the internet, John and several others were fired for misuse of company equipment. John later took legal action against the company for unfair dismissal, arguing that the lack of official guidance meant he deserved an official warning, rather than dismissal. In the end the matter was settled before reaching an employment tribunal, which could have been embarrassing for the company, as John alleged that at least one senior manager had confessed to receiving and passing on the ill-fated email. The TUC warns that in cases such as John's, companies are in danger of over-reacting to each episode, because of the sweep of information available to them about their employees habits. In companies with modern internal computer networks, management has access to more ways of monitoring their employees than ever before. From the moment a worker logs on in the morning to the moment they shut down at night, corporate information technology departments can watch each and every action they make - which keys they press, which websites they visit, what emails they receive and send. Company networks - intranets - give users the appearance of control of their desktop computer in the same way that they might use their PC at home. In reality, the work computer is usually connected to larger, powerful computer hubs called servers, which can track every piece of data that travels through the network. The servers log each website visited, from each user and each computer, with the details able to be called up weeks, months or potentially even years later. Similarly, employees may delete emails from their computer, and not be aware that each email is almost certainly recorded on a central database somewhere. Even the cleverest computer geeks have been caught out by the long memories of their workplace computers: Bill Gates, founder of Microsoft, was embarrassed to be confronted by emails several years old during his company's battle against the US government. And Henry Blodgett, top internet analyst for Wall Street bank Merrill Lynch, was found to be rubbishing investment targets in private emails, while talking them up in public. Technology is developing so quickly that the law is struggling to keep to up. In France, workers are protected by a supreme court ruling last year which bans employers from accessing private electronic correspondence. This applies even if the company prohibits private use of its computer systems. The ruling came after Nikon France became suspicious that one of its employees was carrying out freelance work on its system. Sure enough, by searching computer records executives found incriminating emails and documents in euphemistically-titled \"personal\" files. The employee was dismissed, but the courts held that the company had only uncovered the evidence by breaching his right to privacy. In Britain, the rules are less clear. Since all of the potentially dodgy activity takes place on company equipment, and usually during working hours, so far the law works in favour of the employer, who has \"routine access\" to employees' online activities - although there are some safeguards through the Human Rights Act, as well as the Data Protection Act. However, companies are aware that these new communication tools can hurt them in many ways. In the case of pornographic or racist emails, companies are vulnerable to anti-discrimination actions by employees if they fail to impose guidelines on appropriate behaviour. Or, as Norwich Union discovered, an email sent to the wrong place can cost a lot of money - it paid out \u00a3450,000 after an employee mistakenly sent a libellous message using a company email address. In particular industries the potential for surveillance extends beyond the computer screen. In all but the smallest financial institutions, telephone calls are recorded and many have closed-circuit television monitoring - both for security and for compliance with current financial regulations. Security procedures such as swipe cards on entrances also allow detailed following of employees - if management wants to - of how much time is spent in which parts of a building and, in some workplaces, with cards required for entry to workplace toilets. But it is the explosion in workplace internet and email use that gives employers the most powerful tool for monitoring the activities of their staff. The scale of the problem has become evident in the US, where one survey of companies found that a third of those questioned had disciplined employees for inappropriate use of the internet in the previous 12 months. In a third of those cases, an employee was fired as a result of an investigation - more than half the sackings involved online pornography surfing, with the use of web-based chat rooms, internet shopping and online share-trading among other reasons for dismissals. In this country, there have been a number of high- profile cases: at the Jaguar offices in Halewood, 30 people were disciplined last November for circulating \"inappropriate material\" via email. The country's biggest mass-sacking came at Orange, the mobile phone company, when it dismissed 45 staff from its offices in Darlington, Hertford and Peterlee in 2000. The TUC estimates that that many more workers - perhaps as many as 1,000 - have been disciplined or fired because of obscene images viewed over the net. The danger, as it points out, is that the microscopic surveillance gives great powers to employers, and a potentially convenient reason for any manager looking for an excuse to hit the delete button. \u00b7 Richard Adams is The Guardian's City diarist.",
  "title": "Breaches of netiquette",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/surveillance"
  ],
  "lead": "Richard Adams on how the email revolution has handed employers a new and powerful tool for workplace surveillance.",
  "id": "uk/2002/sep/07/privacy.richardadams",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}