{
  "content": "It is early on a fine Friday evening and office workers are spilling from one of the tiny pubs that fringe London's Soho, drinking in the setting sun as they shrug off the week. Buttons are undone and shoulders bared. Passing vehicles force groups closer together, bodies pressing against bodies, skin brushing skin. The air ripples with the promise of summer and holidays and something else besides. Sex. It's there in the too-loud laughter of the woman in the canary top, and in the eyes of the lean, pointy-faced man who gazes over at her - a gaze that lingers just a little longer than necessary. It's in the throaty bass pulsing from a car's open window, notes so low that you don't so much hear them as feel them. And it's in the drinks that these homeward-bound revellers clutch and clink - a tipsy hint fizzing in the supersize glasses of pinot grigio, the sticky-necked alcopops, the pints that slosh on to the pavement. Once you start looking for it, sex is everywhere, but it's a very particular kind of sex. You can see it emblazoned on the T-shirt worn by a teenage boy too winsome to need to tell the world: 'Drink till you want me.' You can overhear it in the teary voice of the girl yelling into her phone, 'But I slept with him!' And if you ask the guy sat in the corner of the pub - that one, with the tousle-haired blonde perched in his lap - he'll tell you. 'She's not my girlfriend, but I will be having casual sex with her later.' The fuzziness of the term 'casual sex' speaks directly to its appeal - it's a phrase that can't even commit to a definition. What it's not is a one-night stand, a succession of dates, an on-off relationship. 'It's like a series of one-night stands with the same person,' says Luke, a 24-year-old actor and temp. A slightly older crowd may still think of it in terms of 'fuck buddies' or 'friends with benefits' - labels that sound almost quaint by comparison with the cocky cool of casual sex. Though the notion's not new, the currency that it's gained is. In the decades since the Aids awakening gave the rest of us our first real glimpse of how gay men managed it, casual sex has morphed into a fully-fledged heterosexual lifestyle. It's tastefully packaged between the covers of callgirl memoirs, a mini publishing trend, and peddled as pseudo-feminist empowerment in mid-shelf glossies, their pages packed with top-shelf tips. As universal as lust itself, it's accessible to all, from millennial-generation Facebookers to pharmacologically enhanced baby boomers. It is free love without even the pretence of all those soppy emotions - the perfect-seeming capsule experience for our demanding, time-pressed days. We want our sex in the same way that we want the latest iPod incarnation or other consumables - now and for now only. And though alcohol still plays a role, technology is fast becoming our favourite icebreaker. On the online classifieds site Craigslist, 'casual encounters' are up for grabs alongside used furniture and bar jobs, and on its rival Gumtree, 'casual' postings rose a nationwide average of 230 per cent between January and May this year, with the most marked increases occurring in the regions. On social-networking site Facebook, you can 'poke' your friends (and other people's) and join groups whose rallying cry is, 'Casual sex is the new first base' or 'Be my fuck buddy.' Meanwhile, websites such as Loving Links and the Ashley Madison Agency cater for a growing population of people who describe themselves as 'attached but looking'. 'There are an awful lot of walls between us. Most of us need a bit of help,' says BT futurologist, Ian Pearson. He forecasts that in the next 10 or 15 years, urban positioning technologies will have enhanced messaging services to the extent that you'll be able to text the attractive stranger at the bar simply by pointing your phone at them. His other predictions include 'ego badges', jewellery-like devices on to which you'll be able to upload key data about yourself - your likes, dislikes, desires, effectively your personality. The badge will then transmit that information directly to passers-by, swapping it for theirs and processing it all within moments in order to alert you to that perfect partner whom you might otherwise have missed. It may have a sci-fi ring to it but, already, websites such as Facebook give the impression that there are no real strangers. 'Everyone is a friend of a friend,' says Luke. And those friends no longer get to act as gatekeepers - you can simply message their mates yourself. At the click of a mouse you can learn things about a person that would once have taken awkward dinners and whispered asides at the cinema to find out, and in idle moments you can even scroll your way through networks, mapping entire sexual histories. 'It sounds creepy, but we do Facebook stalking,' one first-year Cambridge student told me. 'And people use the poke thing for people they fancy.' The poke thing is the electronic equivalent of a tap on the shoulder in a crowded bar. Its sexual connotations are blatant, which goes for much of the Facebook site. Relationship status is one of the basic biographical facts that members are invited to reveal about themselves, with that hoary bit of hedging 'It's complicated' being among the options. When asked what you're looking for, you can keep it equally fluid by answering 'Random play' or 'Whatever I can get.' A twentysomething student told me he was building up a network exclusively of hot female 'friends' with a view to selling his Facebook identity once he reaches the 100 mark. In marketing terms, these people all belong to the 'technosexual' generation, and they're exactly who Calvin Klein's newest scent is aimed at. A 'sequel' to CK One, CK in2u alludes to text-message come-ons with its name and blends the words 'sex' and 'today' in its ad campaign. 'She likes how he blogs, her texts turn him on. It's intense. For right now,' reads a line from the press blurb. And yet, how much can you truly learn about a person from a blog? A lot of the information on Facebook is superficial and guarded. The pictures tend to be either improbably flattering or deliberately obscured - along with the rest of what's posted, they represent a highly manipulated reality. You can even choose to 'block' any fellow Facebooker who becomes bothersome. Real life is rarely so orderly. Love, especially, entails a giddying loss of control. Which is perhaps why casual sex has found so many followers - not just among the so-called millennial generation who are still trying to pull the rest of their lives together, but the thirtysomethings marking time until their perfect partner comes along, the broken-hearted and the married. 'Casual is cosy, it's safe and it's not going to complicate your life,' says 26-year-old Lily. She's still hooking up with a friend from university every so often. There's no way she would take it any further, but for the time being this stopgap sex suits them both perfectly. As Luke reminds me, 'It's an odd age, your early twenties. People are intensely focused on their careers, and they have these plans to stick to - by a certain age they'll have done this, then a few years later that. Plus, there's the idea that you need experience. Timing is really important so there's almost a fear you'll meet \"the one\" too soon.' More prosaic factors also play a role. One woman I spoke to, in her late thirties, ranked her casual conquests according to how much it would have cost her to cab home instead, a \u00a35 fare being super-cute, a \u00a330 someone you'd rather not glimpse in daylight. Casual, certainly, but it's also logistical sex - and just how sexy can that be? They may be casual, but there's still an etiquette to be observed in these encounters. 'You're meant to appear keen even though you both know it's going nowhere and you've no idea when you're going to see them again,' explains Kate, a 23-year-old northerner who's currently flitting between careers in London. 'It's as if there's a script.' The phrase 'I'll call you' is a staple, sometimes uttered so ironically that you can almost hear the inverted commas. But while they ape bygone dating rituals, these scripts are really all about preserving the anonymity of 'the casual', about not disturbing the tidy compartmentalisation that so many of the people I spoke with believe in. Kate recalls having to hurry a 'casual' out of her flat one morning - not because she had a lover about to return, rather she just didn't want him around when her Sainsbury's order arrived. Getting naked was one thing, but letting him glimpse what kind of breakfast cereal she preferred? That would have felt plain invasive. This script necessarily features a lot of silence, and the one thing that absolutely cannot be discussed is the relationship itself. A defining characteristic of the casual is that both parties would probably deny the existence of a relationship, but two people's feelings rarely tally quite so neatly. Kate had sex with someone on and off for around three years. Without being asked to, he always left before dawn. They didn't talk about any of it until a couple of years after it was all over, which is when he revealed he'd have been keen on something more. She'd had no idea. Dr Petra Boynton is a UCL sex researcher and agony aunt. 'People are really scared to have conversations,' she says. 'Sometimes, an encounter might have been something else, but neither party knew how to broach the subject. Women's magazines present the idea that casual sex is an empowering trend. It's been made into a lifestyle issue when it may not suit everyone. Some go into these things as sexual explorers, but others, especially younger teens, are having casual sex because they think it might eventually go somewhere. They're left wondering why someone doesn't want them even though they give the best blowjob in the world.' And they probably do give the best blowjob in the world. As David Kepesh, the sexagenarian narrator of Philip Roth's novella The Dying Animal so wryly observes: 'The decades since the Sixties have done a remarkable job of completing the sexual revolution. This is a generation of astonishing fellators.' Our sexual expectations are dauntingly high. Not only have we had more sex, we've seen more. Even if we've never glimpsed a porn movie, we'll have unwittingly built up a library of steamy celluloid moves, culled from mainstream cinema and MTV. From sex-ed classes to those top tips in Cosmo and GQ, sex talk is technical. 'We know so much from a theoretical point of view,' says Lily. It's partly this emphasis on the technical that enables us to dismiss experiences as being 'just sex'. One man I spoke with in his late thirties said sex was up there on a pedestal but, in fact, it was 'just an exercise, like a game of squash'. Yet even this weathered sexual explorer hasn't quite surrendered the idea of someday settling down with his ideal partner. In fact, the most actively casual people I spoke to also had some of the most old-fashioned and romantic ideals. They don't want to compromise in their choice of life partner and in the meantime, rather than investing time and emotion in someone who's not quite right, they'd prefer to hook up casually with someone who asked nothing of them. There's an assumption that their casual experiences won't imprint themselves in some way, that they really can compartmentalise their lives that thoroughly. But keeping casual sex casual requires effort, and you learn tricks it might not be so easy to unlearn. 'One of the other problems of the fuck-buddy culture is that you find ways of stopping intimacy. I've found myself doing that,' says Glaswegian novelist and sex expert Ewan Morrison. At the age of 35 he walked out on a big relationship and embarked on a year of cathartic casual sex. 'I'd experience this horrible melancholy where I knew I'd found a connection with someone, but I had this terrible fear of committing then failing again, so I had to keep reminding myself that this couldn't go any further, that I had to keep moving on.' And there are the sexual peccadilloes. One girl told me about a friend in her early thirties whose new husband had slept with more than 400 women before they met. You might think he'd have lost count after 100, but apparently he kept a list. Typically, perhaps, he chose a relatively inexperienced bride. (Then again, who wouldn't seem inexperienced by comparison?) It's too early to tell how he's adjusting to monogamy, but after a few months of wedded bliss he's already made certain bedroom requests that have made her wonder. His is an extreme case, cartoonish in his sleaziness, but sexual freedom coupled with later marriage does mean we're experiencing more partners and more variety before we settle down. Psychologist Dr Glenn Wilson is a reader in personality at King's College, London. He also devised the psychometric matching test used by online dating agency Cybersuitors. 'It might be that all this tasting of novelty will give you a taste for novelty,' he says. If the proliferation of websites geared specifically to the 'married but lookings' is anything to go by, people are finding it hard to shut off the glut of options they've grown accustomed to during their single years. Of course, these sites make affairs so instantly accessible it's probable that supply has begun creating demand. 'Technology has had a huge impact on sex,' says Wilson. 'First came the car, which kids could use as a cocoon and park in Lovers' Lane. Then contraception liberated women. Now we've got the web, where it's all declared, there's no awkwardness.' Or, as David Miller, the founder of the UK's original extramarital dating agency, Loving Links, puts it: 'Everyone can make their randy little dreams come true.' Miller began Loving Links 12 years ago and launched it online in 2002. The website currently has around 20,000 users nationwide. A former producer of TV adverts, Miller lived in Paris for a decade and is a connoisseur of no-strings liaisons. 'The genuine online casual is dwindling - it's got too commercial. Craigslist used to be wonderful, a real smorgasbord of afternoon delights, but it's rubbish these days - all pros. Gumtree's not bad, though you'd normally end up with a waiter. And Adult Friend Finder - that's really quite dirty casual. We're quality casual.' Browse through the online personals and 'casual' begins to seem a curious misnomer. People can be so prosaically picky. One man on Gumtree is looking for women close to the M40, M6, A14 or M74. Another wants to hook up at the Brecon Jazz Festival. Cleanliness and discretion are much in demand, though things do get a little steamier at the Ashley Madison Agency, where members are asked to list what they're looking for, what 'really turns them on', and the kind of encounters they're open to. Tantric sex, role playing and 'anything goes' are just a few of the options. 'This is like a tax return!' despairs one man. 'Whatever happened to conversation ... Finding out ... Isn't that the fun?' He claims to be 44 and he's showing his age. According to Miller, people don't know what they want - men especially. 'Lots of men are wannabes. They think it's what they want, but put them in a hotel room with a strange woman and their legs will turn to jelly. Women have thought about it beforehand. They're more determined and if they get as far as signing up, they're serious.' Though men have always outnumbered the women on Miller's books, he's signing up more women than ever, and for the first time their average age has dropped below 40. It's a question of sexual self-esteem, he insists. Women and men both lose it in chaste marriages and sign up to Loving Links in search of 'the pink fluffy bit - the buzz, the high, the orgasms'. The site's success rests in its old-fashioned tact. Its pastel shades and kitschy, art nouveau illustrations of bare-breasted damsels and pink-cheeked boys garlanded with roses all collude in the pretence set up by its very name, tactfully glossing over the fact that its real business is extramarital hookups. (Click on 'dating guides' and titles like David's Top Alibis bring it juddering home.) Even the Ashley Madison Agency, which flaunts the tagline 'When Monogamy Becomes Monotony' and enables members to upload 'private showcase photos' (think badly lit amateur porn - with a paunch), underscores the more upscale connotations of its name with a cursive font. 'A shag is such an empty experience,' says Miller. 'Without respect there's none of the validation that comes from an affair. You get so much more out of even a three-week relationship if you've built some sort of a friendship.' In his view, if the average 'random casual' lasts 12 weeks, it's had a good run. Occasionally, the faithless will head off into the sunset together, but they never last. 'How much would you trust someone you met on an infidelity site?' It's tempting to see the rise in casual encounters as being a wholly modern phenomenon, somehow symptomatic of the fact that we're so rarely able to commit to being in one place or moment at a time, let alone with one person. We're plugged into iPods whose tunes transport us elsewhere. We keep half an eye on our BlackBerry and an ear as carefully attuned to our ringtone as a mother's to her newborn. We skype and IM simultaneously, catching up with one friend while texting another. We acquire digital 'second lives' and dally with different chatroom personas. Everything is contingent. According to futurologist Ian Pearson, research shows the average teenager now communicates on five or six platforms and has literally hundreds of instant messaging 'friends'. In a way, casual sex is to intimate, loving sex what Facebook friends are to bosom buddies - just another short cut to intimacy. Yet as long as sex exists in the real rather than the virtual sphere, it will resist compartmentalisation. In Erica Jong's 1973 novel, Fear of Flying, her feminist heroine learned that the true 'zipless fuck' - sex free not only of commitments or emotional connections but power struggles or the need to prove anything at all - is 'rarer than the unicorn'. Technology may have edged us closer, but the same remains true in the 21st century. However stringless, sex is hardly ever 'just sex'. It's about a bad day or a good day at work, it's about feeling young or needing to feel young, about loneliness, inebriation and, in spite of it all, love.",
  "title": "It started with a click",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/internet",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle"
  ],
  "lead": "From online personals for 'friends with benefits' to illicit blogs and even an electronic 'poke' ... the digital age has created a technosexual generation hooked on no-strings casual sex. Hephzibah Anderson meets the people who aren't looking for love.",
  "id": "technology/2007/jun/17/socialnetworking.internet",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}