{
  "content": "It's crunch time at the US supreme court, where the justices are racing to issue opinions in more than a dozen cases over the next two weeks. The next round of decisions is due Thursday morning. On Monday, the court threw out out Argentina's appeal over 2001 debt default, and revived a challenge by two conservative groups who oppose an Ohio law that punishes knowingly false political statements. But still to come: the religious rights of corporations, the speech rights of abortion protesters and the privacy rights of people under arrest are among the significant issues that are so far unresolved. Summer travel, European teaching gigs and relaxation beckon the justices, but only after the court hands down decisions in all the cases it has heard since October. In rare instances, the justices will put off decisions and order a case to be argued again in the next term. This is also the time of the year when a justice could announce a retirement. But the oldest of the justices, 81-year-old Ruth Bader Ginsburg, has signaled she will serve at least one more year, and maybe longer. The justices will meet again Thursday to issue opinions, and could wind up their work by the end of the month. Major cases remain that will have major repercussions: Cellphone searches and arrest privacy Two cases weigh the power of police to search the cellphones of people they place under arrest without first obtaining a warrant from a judge. The Guardian's Dan Roberts recorded how justices at times struggled to comprehend technological advances. \"What is the difference between [photos stored on a smartphone and] hard copy photos in a billfold?\" asked justice Samuel Alito. \"I don't see there is much of a difference,\" he added. Justice Stephen Breyer appeared to bemuse lawyers by referring to the \"brzzing\" sound of phones and \"buzzers\" you can push. \"[What if] they can just cough and encrypt it?\" asked Breyer when discussing why seizing a phone might not be enough to prevent evidence tampering. When one lawyer started a response by saying \"I don't know what kind of smartphone you have, perhaps an iPhone,\" Breyer responded: \"I don't know either because I can never get into it because of the password.\" Harvard law professor Yochai Benkler argues that justices' \"narrow analogies will systematically fail to preserve the values they did five or ten years ago, especially when we're walking around with all the metadata coming out \u2026 our pockets.\" Privacy advocate Trevor Timm argues the case is \"the tip of the iceberg\". TV on the Internet Broadcasters are fighting Internet startup Aereo's practice of taking television programming for free and providing it to subscribers who can then watch on smartphones and other portable devices. Backed by the US government and organizations like the NFL, ABC, CBS, Fox and PBS accuse Aereo of blatant theft. Referring to the company's business description, Justice Sonia Sotomayor said: \"I read it and say: 'Why aren't they a cable company?'\" The case has major implications for streaming, cloud-based data storage and online programming. Corporations' religious rights and contraceptives Corporations are claiming the right to exercise religious objections to covering women's contraceptives under their employee health insurance plans, despite the new health law's requirement that birth control be among a range of no-cost preventive services included in health plans. Lower courts have been split on an issue \"central to the case, [of] whether for-profit companies have a right to exercise religious freedoms under either the first amendment's free exercise clause, or under a federal law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, the Guardian's Karen McVeigh notes. Abortion clinic buffer zones Abortion opponents are challenging as a violation of their speech rights a Massachusetts law mandating a 35-foot protest-free zone on public sidewalks outside abortion clinics. In 2000, court upheld a buffer zone decision in Colorado, but this case hinges on the justices' balance of \"free speech rights versus the state's duty to protest public safety against years of intimidation and harassment from protesters\". Recess presidential appointments A federal appeals court said President Barack Obama misused the Constitution's recess power when he temporarily filled positions on the National Labor Relations Board in 2012. The Guardian noted that \"most of the nine supreme court justices who heard argument in a test case on Monday appeared to take a dim view of the government's position.\" Justice Elena Kagan said: \"This is not the horse and buggy era. There is no such thing as congressional absence here. What we are dealing with [the recess power] is a historical relic.\" Greenhouse gases Industry groups and 13 states, including Texas, assert that environmental regulators overstepped their bounds by trying to apply a provision of the Clean Air Act to control emissions of greenhouse gases from power plants and factories. This case is unlikely to affect the recent proposal from the Environmental Protection Agency to slash carbon dioxide emissions from power plants by nearly one-third by 2030; that plan involves a different part of the same law. Key justice Anthony Kennedy appeared to lean toward government's case, and the justices as a group did not appear willing to hear disputes of climate science. Union fees Home healthcare workers in Illinois want the court to rule that public sector unions cannot collect fees from workers who object to being affiliated with a union. Securities fraud Investors could find it harder to bring class-action lawsuits over securities fraud at publicly traded companies in a case involving Halliburton Co, a provider of energy, oil and infrastructure services.",
  "title": "Supreme court cases ahead: cellphones, contraception and internet TV",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/us-supreme-court",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "law/law",
    "law/us-constitution-and-civil-liberties",
    "world/abortion",
    "world/privacy",
    "society/contraception-and-family-planning",
    "society/health",
    "world/freedom-of-speech",
    "world/freedom-of-religion",
    "us-news/obama-administration",
    "environment/environment",
    "environment/carbon-emissions",
    "technology/internet",
    "business/telecoms",
    "technology/telecoms"
  ],
  "lead": "The highest US court must resolve cases on privacy, technology, streaming services, free speech and women's healthcare",
  "id": "law/2014/jun/16/us-supreme-court-cases-left-privacy-abortion-contraception",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}