{
  "content": "An American internet security firm says it has traced the sophisticated cyber-attack against Google and 30 other US companies back to the Chinese government \"or its proxies\". In its announcement that it might quit China, Google stopped short of accusing the Chinese government of responsibility for the attacks. However, the report from Verisign's iDefense Labs said the internet addresses \"of the attack correspond to a single foreign entity consisting either of agents of the Chinese state or proxies thereof\". Internet attacks are difficult to trace to their source as attackers often use several computers, sometimes in different countries, to cover their tracks. The researchers traced the attacks to the servers used to control software involved in the attack. Researchers at the security lab interviewed several sources from defence and intelligence contractors to back up their allegations against the Chinese government. In Britain, Gordon Brown's spokesman said: \"The Google statement contained serious allegations on privacy and freedom of information. We are not privy to their discussions with the Chinese authorities. But we will be watching closely. Clearly internet freedom is a fundamental right and an essential component of a modern economy. At the last bilateral human rights dialogue with China the government lobbied specifically on internet access.\" Two years ago, MI5 warned 300 British companies that Chinese hackers were targeting corporate networks. In a briefing last year, the US defence contractor, Northup Grumman, warned that the Chinese army was training troops in internet warfare. In addition to Google, the Washington Post reported that Yahoo, Symantec, Northrop Grumman, and Dow Chemical were also targets of the cyber-attack, which may have begun last summer. China has stood firm against Google's challenge over censorship, reminding internet firms to abide by government controls. In its first direct response to hacking claims, a foreign ministry spokeswoman, Jiang Yu, said: \"China's internet is open, China welcomes international internet enterprises to conduct business in China according to law.\" She added: \"China administers the internet according to the law. We have an explicit stipulation of what information and content could be spread over the internet.\" Asked about claims the intrusion into Google originated from China, she replied: \"Chinese laws prohibit any form of cyber-attacks including hacking.\" Google cited a growing clampdown on the internet and a December attack by hackers, which it said targeted human rights advocates as well as stealing intellectual property, for its decision. A source with direct knowledge of Google's senior management said the internet giant moved quickly to announce it would stop censoring its Chinese service after realising dissidents were at risk from attempts to use the company's technology for political surveillance. The source said the company's decision was influenced by the experiences of Sergey Brin's Russian refugee background. \"The notion that somebody would try to turn Google's tools into tools of political surveillance was something he found deeply offensive.\" When it became clear that the cyber attacks were about political surveillance, people at the very top of the company \"decided they no longer wanted to participate in this kind of behaviour,\" said the source.",
  "title": "Google attacks traced back to China, says US internet security firm",
  "lead": "Verisign's iDefense Labs says IP addresses of attack 'correspond to single foreign entity consisting either of agents of Chinese state or proxies thereof'",
  "tags": [
    "technology/google",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/yahoo",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "world/china",
    "world/censorship",
    "media/media",
    "media/sergeybrin",
    "politics/gordon-brown",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/asia-pacific"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2010/jan/14/google-attacks-traced-china-verisign",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}