{
  "content": "When the 1850 public libraries bill was going through parliament, opposition came mainly from MPs representing the universities of Oxford and Cambridge. They were appalled at the idea of unmediated information getting to people who probably shouldn't have it and in whose hands it could even be dangerous. In 1950, the film industry defence organisation was established to buy up movies so they couldn't be shown on the new rival medium of television. These classic examples of organisations trying to thwart new competition (cited at a recent Westminster Media Forum on the creative industries by Lord Puttnam) have their equivalent in today's efforts by the music industry to throttle the growth of downloads instead of trying to harness them for its own survival. But behind all this lies an urgent question: is there anything we can do to encourage the recent success of our creative industries - which now account for 7.3% of GDP, according to the Work Foundation - or should we just lie back and let luck take its course? Creative industries - embracing Harry Potter, galleries, plays, advertising, publishing, television, computer games and so forth - are becoming vital for the growth of the economy with manufacturing in decline and the financial services industry suffering turbulence from which it may not fully recover. This ought to be a golden age for Britain's creative industries. Historically, we have been brilliant at inventing but hopeless at exploiting. The web has hugely reduced the cost of translating ideas into businesses and the emergence of the venture capital industry ought to provide the finance to achieve it. Governments can't grow companies, but they can fertilise the soil and remove weeds that impede growth. Who could have predicted that the amateur coders who cut their teeth on the BBC B and Spectrum computers in the 1980s would move on to create one of the world's strongest computer games industries? Or that the industry would then be largely acquired by foreign companies, just as Bebo, a rare UK success in social networking, and Last.fm, the music networking site, have been? Britain's games industry has just dropped from three to four in the world league because of an exodus of talent to Canada to take advantage of tax subsidies to games developers, a problem not remedied in last week's Budget. One of the next growth industries must be virtual worlds since hundreds are springing up, with China and Thailand having quite dramatic plans. I know of UK companies that might succeed, but it looks like most of the action will be in the US and Europe - where Finland's Habbo Hotel, with 90 million teenagers, and Sweden's Entropia Universe are huge successes. So what can be done? First, the government must ensure that the infrastructure is there. This includes establishing UK-wide fast, affordable broadband, including Wi-Fi. This is the equivalent of governments and industries getting together in the 1990s to ensure that GSM was a standard for mobile phones. That was the main reason Europe acquired a big competitive advantage over the US in wireless technology. Second, we must improve core mathematical and engineering skills to produce people who can then hone those skills to fill gaps such as the current shortage of engineers for computer games and virtual worlds. One smart suggestion is that maths teaching in schools could be linked to a career in gaming. Third, we need to capitalise on the amazing popularity of social networks to make it easier for people with ideas to translate them into products and services. This is already happening with music, where a video can be made for next to nothing to showcase before a potential global audience. But, as with public libraries and films in the past, one big obstacle to progress is the conservatism of current producers. vic.keegan@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Creativity shouldn't be limited to finance",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/digital-music-and-audio",
    "technology/games",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Victor Keegan:  One big obstacle to progress is the conservatism of current producers",
  "id": "technology/2008/mar/20/digitalmusic.bebo",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}