{
  "content": "Prince Charles flew back from Oman yesterday to find his former press adviser Mark Bolland fuelling the royal crisis by revealing a conversation with another senior aide about the Prince of Wales's sexuality. Clarence House hinted that Mr Bolland's confidentiality contract might have been breached as the ousted spin doctor publicly defended Michael Fawcett, Charles's former closest aide. In the course of accusing other courtiers of \"wicked\" plots against Mr Fawcett, Mr Bolland disclosed that Sir Michael Peat, the prince's private secretary, had asked him whether Charles was bisexual. Mr Bolland, who is gay, wrote: \"A year ago, Michael Peat called me on holiday and asked: 'Do you think the Prince of Wales is bisexual?'\" Mr Bolland said he had told Sir Michael it \"was emphatically not the case\" that Charles was gay or bisexual. It is understood that Sir Michael also asked Mr Bolland if he believed there was any truth in a rumour about a sexual incident involving the prince and a servant, but he declined to answer. A Clarence House spokeswoman told the Guardian there would be nothing surprising about Sir Michael, who was then conducting an inquiry into allegations of sexual incidents in the prince's household, raising such an issue with Mr Bolland at that time. While the Queen attended the Remembrance service at the Cenotaph in London, the continuing furore overshadowed the announcement that Sophie Wessex had given birth a month early to a daughter after an emergency Caesarean section. Both were said to be stable. Clarence House stressed that there were no plans to take legal action against George Smith, a former assistant valet, for breaches of confidence. Mr Smith, who has a history of alcoholism and psychological disturbance, was recruited by the Mail on Sunday to swear an affidavit that he witnessed a sexual incident. But both parties involved say it never actually occurred, and there is no evidence the allegation is true. In yesterday's News of the World, Mr Bolland accused unnamed people around Charles of \"a wicked quest to destroy Michael Fawcett\". \"So fed up were his enemies that they invented rumours about why Charles would not listen to their pleas to sack Michael. A few of them started suggesting there was something unnatural about the relationship. It was all very unfair.\" Last night Mr Bolland denied he was fuelling the speculation. \"The palace started that when they put the prince's name into the public domain,\" he told the Guardian. He added: \"I think what I've said is quite helpful because I've tried to explain where the rumour came from and how it got currency. The fact that Michael Peat was asking questions about it just showed the level of seriousness with which it was being treated in the household, which is just crazy.\"",
  "title": "Charles returns to fresh revelation from aide",
  "lead": "Prince Charles flew back from Oman yesterday to find his former press adviser Mark Bolland fuelling the royal crisis by revealing a conversation with another senior aide about the Prince of Wales's sexuality, writes David Leigh",
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "uk/prince-charles",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "society/sexuality"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/nov/10/pressandpublishing.themonarchy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}