{
  "content": "Newspaper watchdogs have renewed warnings to editors that celebrities and their families still have a right to privacy even if their personal relationships and affairs have been pored over by the press previously. The press complaints commission fired the warning shot when it partially upheld a complaint by Bernie Ecclestone and his wife and daughter about an article in the Mail on Sunday last August. Headlined, \"Bernie the battered husband\", the story was based on an interview with the former boyfriend of Mr Ecclestone's daughter Tamara. But the motor-racing tycoon complained it was an invasion of privacy on four counts - he believed the article intruded on their marital relationship, domestic arrangements, home security arrangements and gave illegitimate intimate details of Miss Ecclestone's relationship with her boyfriend John Keterman. The PCC sought to establish whether The Mail on Sunday has struck the right balance between Mr Keterman's right to freedom of expression and the Ecclestones' right to privacy. But the paper argued that the Ecclestones were public figures who talked to the newspapers about personal matters in the past and the article was therefore justified. And it said Miss Ecclestone had previously written about, and her father commented upon, her social life. But the watchdog upheld the part of the complaint regarding Miss Ecclestone. \"While it noted that Miss Ecclestone has received publicity in the past on account of her lifestyle as the daughter of a very wealthy man, the commission made clear - as it always has done - that the previous publication of matters into the public domain dealing with a person's private life does not necessarily disentitle that person to any right of privacy,\" the PCC ruled. The commission said that \"some intimate details of the relationship - including an account of its sexual aspect\" had not been validated by the fact that other matters about her private life had already been published.",
  "title": "PCC warns over celebrity privacy",
  "lead": "Newspaper watchdogs have renewed warnings that celebrities still have a right to privacy even if they have been the subject of previous coverage. By Julia Day",
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/pcc",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/jan/09/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}