{
  "content": "Over the course of my 32 years on Earth, I have come to accept that I am a show-off. And there is no better place to draw an audience than on Twitter. I am on it constantly and, over the years, I have gathered a few thousand followers (OK, 13,800 at the time of writing). In return, I post news and photos, videos and gifs, and a few jokes (that I spend far too much time crafting). In the grand scheme of addictions, it's not on a par with crack or clear spirits, but, faced with a week without it, I felt a genuine pang. It's not as if I need it, I rationalised. I just really like it. A lot. I signed off Twitter on a Wednesday night, and after telling my followers I would not be doing #Bims10Things, my weekly collection of things I've found and loved on the internet, I stepped into the unknown. On day one, en route to the station, I spotted a woman with stunning green makeup. My first reaction was to go to my phone and broadcast this banality; I stopped myself just in time. On the train platform, I once again reached for my phone to check the news of the day. Without Twitter, I barely remembered where to start. I have curated my timeline to be a sophisticated news sieve. Without it, I am having to do the filtering myself. I wouldn't recommend it. Day two was a Friday, which usually means #Bims10Things. I went to launch the app a couple of times before catching myself and closing it guiltily. I realised I have optimised its placement for my thumb to find first, which is\u2026 troubling. I worked from home, and every freelancer knows Twitter is basically a portable office. I felt its absence keenly. The next day, I recreated an amazing kale and apple salad that I'd had in New York, and made parmentier potatoes from scratch. Without a Twitpic, though, can I even be sure I've got this right? I didn't watch Strictly or X Factor \u2013 with no live-tweeting, and no opportunity to take the piss, there is no point. I want to claw my face off. The fourth day turned out to be the hardest of the week: musician Solange Knowles, aka the crush of my life, got married, and it was perfect. This is my Twitter bread and butter! I genuinely felt sad not being able to tweet about it. So I made up witty little comments in my head and set my jaw. Eventually, I deleted the app from my phone before temptation got the best of me. The next few days were calmer, possibly because I'd started to accept that I might be able to live without Twitter, though more likely because the end was in sight. A large man in a camel coat bumped me with his bag for three stops on the train, and I amused myself by drafting intricate insults in 140 characters or fewer. By day seven, I realised that practically everything I'd read in the week had been on paper. I felt like a 90-year-old. I began a countdown to the magical \"tweet again\" hour. And then I was free. The lesson here is: you can do anything you set your mind to, and having that knowledge is a beautiful, powerful thing. But should you? My week without Twitter was hell. There is no doubt in my mind that I rely on it far too much \u2013 for work, for entertainment, for knowledge and for relaxation. It is the first thing I reach for when idling at a bus stop; most of the time, I will select it over a book. Is it healthy? Probably not. But I don't do drugs or even alcohol, so this feels benign in comparison. I am a useless millennial, and come the resources wars of the future, I may well be killed in the first wave. But I'll probably be live-tweeting my demise.",
  "title": "How I gave up Twitter",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/blogging"
  ],
  "lead": "Bim Adewunmi: 'A man bumps into me and I draft imaginary insults, in 140 characters or fewer'",
  "id": "lifeandstyle/2015/jan/03/how-i-gave-up-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}