{
  "content": "I was motivated by the workers in Mahalla who were trying to organise themselves to have a strike. I thought I should do something to help. I was afraid, just like everyone else, as last year there was strike and it failed. Everyone thought that it would fail again, but that just made me want to work on it harder. My friend Esraa and I decided to start a Facebook group. We invited 160 of the people on her friends list and 140 on mine. By the end of the day there were almost 3,000 people in the group. We were both really surprised. We started the group on March 24, and by April 5 there were 60,000 members. In it we talked about government corruption and the increase in prices, and told everyone to spread the news about the strike through word of mouth. Because there were so many people in the group I became optimistic that the strike was going to be a success. People were so enthusiastic, and angry at what was going on in our country. At the time I knew I could get into trouble with state security, but they didn't seem to be taking the group very seriously. At first they thought we were just a bunch of young people and nothing we did could be very serious. But then that changed. On April 6 there were demonstrations, and state security arrested a lot of people. One of them was Esraa. I realised that they might be looking for me too, so I started to sleep in my car. I would park somewhere deserted and sleep. I hid for a month, taking a lot of precautions: if my friends called and asked me where I was I would lie and say somewhere else. In the street under my apartment and under the apartments of my close friends there were state security men in plain clothes. When I talked to my friends on the phone they would tell me not to come to their houses because they were being watched. The second strike, on May 4, did not succeed either. This time because just before it the president, Hosny Mubarak, announced a pay rise for all workers. There was a lot of pressure on people to go to work, so a lot of them went and the strike failed. At one point a state security officer called me on my mobile and said: \"Hi Ahmed, how are you? Come to the office; we just want to talk to you. We want to make sure you're OK. There won't be any problems.' I said no and told him that it was against the law to call me like that. They are supposed to get a warrant before they tell me to come to the station. I told him I would call him back. Then I turned off my mobile and didn't turn it on until after the strike. I thought I was safe then because it had not been successful. But then, on May 7, I was captured. I was leaving work, and as I was getting in my car I noticed some big men with lots of muscles sitting nearby. They had shaved heads and sunglasses and I knew they were state security. I tried to drive away but three cars with six people in each one drove up and blocked my way. They pulled me into a van and started beating me up. They put me in shackles, blindfolded me and ripped off my shirt. Then they threw me on the floor of the van and beat me all the way to the police station. Once there they hit me and dragged me around the floor for four hours, all the while insulting me and my family. They kept saying that they were going to rape me if I didn't give them my Facebook password. Then they moved me to another state security office and beat me for six or seven hours, saying the same terrible things. Afterwards they made me stay in a small, dirty cell for about five hours. They had put cream on me after the beatings to cover the bruises, but even so the marks were still there. Some of the men came to me and tried to apologise. They said: \"That was just a few bad people. We love Egypt too; we love this country as much as you do. But Egyptians aren't ready for democracy \u2013 just look at what happened in Iraq.\" Before I was abducted I was afraid, and on the day I was abducted I was afraid too. But now that it has happened I'm not scared any more. After I got out I didn't stay silent. I went back to the state security office to file a complaint, but I didn't know the names of the men who had arrested me, or their faces, so they wouldn't let me. After I was released some of them tried to contact me; they called on the phone and wanted to apologise. But on Facebook, at the same time, I was being sent threats. They sent me a message that read: \"Last time was easy but next time will be harder. Last time we only threatened to rape you, but next time we actually will. Next time they won't just be threats.\" The messages come from newly created profiles on the website, with imaginary names. They don't even have anyone on their friends list. I knew it was them. I think the Egyptian people can be broken into two groups. The first is human beings who think and have ideas and analyse the world; the others are just melons. They eat and sleep and work and don't think about anything else. I got involved in politics because I believe thinking human beings have a duty to change the melons into thinking human beings too. There is a historical problem with politics here: everyone thinks it's too dangerous to get involved. But during the 2005 elections there was a lot of political activism and there were demonstrations every day. Later on, when the American government realised that it was in their best interests for Mubarak to stay in power, they started ignoring issues like torture. Political activism became dangerous, and people started to seek refuge on the internet. Being involved in politics is usually about joining some organisation or other, but that route is blocked to us by Egypt's state security. People might think it's time for a change but they have no outlet. If our parents had rebelled our lives would not be like this; if we do it now maybe we can create a better future for our children. This isn't about a revolution \u2013 people are afraid of revolutions. The situation here is a crisis. No one can bear any more of it, but they don't want to revolt because it could lead to chaos and that would be just as bad. What they want is an organised, peaceful process of change. I know it's a long journey, but I think we will get there, to real democracy (not just a game like the one we have now), one in which power is decentralised and officials are accountable for the decisions they make; where people can make their own decisions and the government uses the country's resources well. We have to get rid of the fear people have of politics. They think that if they get involved they will be abused and oppressed. Democracy is a hard, long goal; a government like this, with so much centralised power, will never give the people their rights. We have to demand them.",
  "title": "Egyptian Facebooker falls foul of government",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/egypt",
    "technology/facebook",
    "politics/politics",
    "law/human-rights",
    "world/africa"
  ],
  "lead": "Ahmed Maher's anti-government Facebook group was noticed by state security agents",
  "id": "world/2008/jul/16/egypt-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}