{
  "content": "The digital revolution means that modern toy shops contain more computing power than a space shuttle. Interactive and connected toys promise to bring your child's favourite characters to life, promote coding skills, and even diagnose medical conditions. Hello Barbie is a $75 (\u00a353) doll that can chat with children for hours on end; Kibo is a robot that toddlers program using coloured cubes; and Spanish researchers are developing hi-tech building blocks that can automatically detect neurological disorders. But are smart toys really the next must-have developmental tools, or just digital babysitters that could leave children snuggling up at night with corporate marketers and malicious hackers? \"Young children are born into a digital world that we as their parents and educators were not,\" says Chip Donohue, director of the Technology in Early Childhood Center at the Erikson Institute in Chicago. \"Play evolves, and modern technology can help a child feel more empowered, capable and competent.\" Take toys designed to stimulate computational thinking: logical skills and practices considered essential for solving complex problems. Veronica Lin tested several such toys while studying human-computer interaction at Wellesley College, Massachusetts. She watched 38 children aged from five to nine as they played with the Kibo robot and littleBits, a modular robotics system. \"Digitally-enhanced objects appeared to elicit more smiles and laughs for all users, and led to higher levels of excitement,\" she concludes in her paper. \"Both toys allow children to engage effectively in collaboration, and children were noticeably more engaged when playing with [their] digital aspects.\" Smart toys might even help catch medical problems before they are obvious, thinks Maria Luisa Martin-Ruiz, an electronics engineer at the University of Madrid. \"Early and effective identification of children at risk for developmental disorders remains a [unresolved] task,\" she says. Her team's solution is \"smart cubes\" packed with sensors that can measure their position and motion. Children as young as one would then be allowed to simply play with the cubes, with researchers analysing the data in the hope of detecting problems with the child's motor skills, timing, balance or spatial awareness. While the smart cubes are still being developed, toys that are nearly as impressive are already on the shelves. Hello Barbie can listen to a child's questions and respond with one of 8,000 perky phrases, while the Fisher-Price Smart Toy bear learns how your child plays and recommends new activities. Both use domestic Wi-Fi links to connect the toy to servers online. \"The advantage of the cloud is that you can do learning across platforms ... What one robot [toy] learns, it can share with all the others,\" says Ken Goldberg, a professor of robotics and automation at the University of California, Berkeley. \"But opening up a channel between the outside world and your robot does make it vulnerable. When you're dealing with a kid, you can imagine a very diabolical scenario like Chucky.\" Hello Barbie and Smart Toy have both had privacy scares, with security firms highlighting vulnerabilities that had to be patched, like a computer update. \"A lot of people were excited to claim that they had 'hacked Barbie',\" says Martin Reddy, chief technical officer of ToyTalk, the company behind Hello Barbie's interactive features. \"But no one has actually demonstrated that. No one has eavesdropped on any kid talking to Barbie, and no one has made the doll say anything different from the phrases she is programmed to say.\" In fact, smart toys generally have more protections built in than smartphone digital assistants like Siri, Cortana or Amazon Echo. This is because services designed for children in the US have to comply with the Children's Online Privacy Protection Rule, or COPPA. This regulation controls the use of data collected from anyone under 13, including personal information and audio files, and forbids services from sharing it with other companies or using it for marketing without explicit parental consent. \"Hello Barbie doesn't ask for your name, age or gender,\" says Reddy. \"We don't want more personal information, [as] it just makes our lives more complicated. We only want data for speech recognition purposes to help it work beautifully.\" While security and privacy have yet to emerge as major problems for smart toys, they can still suffer the usual troubleshooting pains of hi-tech gadgets. Luke Reiser bought his granddaughter a Hello Barbie for Christmas but had difficulties getting it online. \"We are now here with our crying four year old and a Barbie that simply repeats, 'Uh oh I can't find a Wi-Fi network',\" he wrote in a review on Amazon. Other users have complained that Hello Barbie is a poor conversationalist. \"I do worry that because these toys are seemingly interactive and seemingly relationship-oriented, we might be more willing to embrace them compared to our caution around screen time,\" says Donohue. \"The research is pretty clear that parent-child interaction helps early literacy and school readiness. In the end, we need to empower parents and help them understand that they should not hand off those responsibilities to a device.\"",
  "title": "Will smart toys make parents lazy?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "sustainable-business/sustainable-business",
    "technology/children-s-tech",
    "technology/technology",
    "lifeandstyle/toys",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "education/education",
    "technology/internet",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Pitched as the next must-have developmental tools, critics worry about hi-tech Barbie dolls and bears eroding parent-child interaction",
  "id": "sustainable-business/2016/mar/29/smart-toys-lazy-parents-internet-of-things-hello-barbie",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}