{
  "content": "Katharine Viner's insightful piece on the impact of social media on public interest reporting and beyond (How technology disrupted the truth, 12 July) rightly focuses on how digital culture has radically changed the operating environment of traditional journalism and the challenges we face as \"guardians\" of the \"truth\". I believe there is a wider cause for concern. Although postmodernism is currently unfashionable, Jean Baudrillard nailed the core issue back in 1987. I quote: \"There is no longer any transcendence or depth, but only the immanent surface of operations unfolding, the smooth and functional surface of communication \u2026 We no longer invest our objects with the same emotions, the same dream of possession, loss, mourning, jealousy; the psychological dimension has been blurred, even if one can still retrieve it in the particular.\" To paraphrase \u2013 we are losing our sense of reality and the rich texture of direct experience. He is writing about how media, in particular television (in 1987), have fundamentally changed our relationship to the objects and events of our experience. I believe the same argument holds for social media in 2016. Digital media act as an interface between our direct engagement with the world and separate us from the truth. Elsewhere Baudrillard discusses the \"escape velocity\" of information \u2013 he might be referring to the accelerated pace of information distribution through modern (digital) technologies. Information without context is meaningless, and when context disappears as it does in the social media universe, so does truth. Which cuts to the heart of Viner's article and the slow death of journalism. Or perhaps we are in at the birth of new forms of social and cultural currency. A place where \"truth\" is purely self-referential, no longer dependent on fact or actuality; a digital culture which has escaped gravity, where old definitions of what is real and true no longer matter. Sam Berrisford Ashbourne, Derbyshire \u2022 Katharine Viner makes many interesting points about the way in which internet technologies such as search engines and social media shape or reshape our understanding of events, but there is an underlying implication that they are responsible for truth slipping away in some fashion. Surely there is nothing new in this phenomenon that wasn't already present in the postmodern movement of the 20th century, or, for that matter, even in the rise of scepticism in the 17th century. The assault on positivism and the rise of relativism occurred before computers made it into anyone's house. And while social media intrigues many, is it really that different from, say, 17th-century pamphleting, or village gossip for that matter? The scale may have changed, but has the process and its impact on how individuals perceive \"the truth\"? I wonder. Robert Sharp Poole, Dorset \u2022 I would recommend to anyone who found Katharine Viner's article interesting that they should read Professor Stephen Duncombe's book Dream: Progressive Politics in an Age of Fantasy, now shamefully out of print but available as a free PDF on his website. His central idea is that the left strives with Enlightenment zeal to be rational, in the (mistaken) belief that when the facts are known, the scales will fall from people's eyes. Instead he argues that they should be searching for the \"ethical spectacle\" that will enable the facts to be presented in a way that reaches more than rational brains, but without the right's moral compromise. Joshua Taylor York \u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com",
  "title": "A postmodern take on guardians of the truth | Letters",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/newspapers",
    "world/philosophy",
    "world/world",
    "world/ethics",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/television",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": " Jean Baudrillard wrote about how media, in particular television (in 1987), have fundamentally changed our relationship to the objects and events of our experience. I believe the same argument holds for social media in 2016",
  "id": "media/2016/jul/13/a-postmodern-take-on-guardians-of-the-truth",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}