{
  "content": "\"When a true genius appears in the world\", wrote Jonathan Swift, \"you may know him by this sign, that the dunces are all in a confederacy against him\". Thus it was in July 2006 when Twitter appeared. It was a \"microblogging\" service that allowed one to broadcast one's thoughts to the world, on one condition: that they should be expressible in not more than 140 characters. I thought it was a work of genius the first moment I laid eyes on it. But most normal people, and not a few of my friends, thought otherwise. The avalanche of incredulity, ridicule and scepticism that greeted anyone who came out as a \"tweeter\" in those early days is hard to imagine now, five years on. But it seemed real enough at the time. The situation got worse before it got better. When the mainstream media discovered Twitter, it immediately took hold of the wrong end of the stick \u2013 by focusing on \"celebrity\" tweeters including Stephen Fry and Jonathan Ross \u2013 and ignoring what was actually happening, which was that ordinary people were beginning to make intelligent use of a surprisingly powerful communication channel. What sets Twitter apart from social networking services such as Facebook is the absence of any expectation of reciprocity. If you decide to \"follow\" my twitterstream, then I'm under no obligation to follow yours. Unlike email, a tweet carries no expectation of a reply, and so there's no heavy burden of obligation. The result is what one might call, pace Milan Kundera, the bearable lightness of tweeting. After email and the web, Twitter has become for me the most useful service on the net. In part, this is because I'm choosy about whom to follow. Most of those whose tweets I see are people I either know personally, or whose work and opinions I value. So what I'm effectively doing is plugging into a collective stream of consciousness. Like many heavy users of the internet, I use RSS (Really Simple Syndication) as a way of keeping track of the hundreds of websites and blogs in which I'm interested. But reading such an RSS stream was beginning to feel like trying to drink from a firehose. So Twitter has become my human-mediated RSS feed. The idea that a technology involving 140-character messages could become a serious medium for conversation seems as absurd as the notion that one could have philosophical arguments using smoke signals. And yet as Twitter has evolved it has developed a set of informal conventions that enable people to exchange opinions and to support or challenge one another. Users can reply directly to tweets, often appending URLs that support their position. More frequently, they will \"retweet\" tweets with which they agree, so that an idea that is gaining currency among one group of users will suddenly be launched into a completely different tweetstream with a completely different set of followers. In this way, ideas disseminate across the ecosystem with astonishing speed. Twitter was the way in which many people first learned of the death of Michael Jackson, for example; and of Hosni Mubarak's departure on Friday. Recently we've discovered that Twitter has political uses too. Because it's easy to use on mobile phones, it has become an invaluable tool for dissidents and protesters everywhere. When WikiLeaks lost its DNS service, for example, and suddenly web browsers were unable to find the URL, the temporary IP addresses circulated as tweets. And when Egyptians found they couldn't access the net, a service called speak2tweet enabled them to tweet by leaving voicemail messages on international phone numbers. So what once seemed like a joke has become deadly serious. And we'd miss it if it disappeared.",
  "title": "Twitter's five-year evolution from ridicule to dissidents' tool",
  "lead": "People laughed in 2006 when Twitter started. Now it's hard to imagine life without it, writes John Naughton",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/digital-media",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/protest",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2011/feb/13/twitter-mainstream-dissidents-protest",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}