{
  "content": "Reality went on the run in 2007. This was the year when the Queen did not storm out of a photoshoot but was edited to appear otherwise, the year John Darwin was revealed not to have really died four years ago in a canoeing accident. This was the year of a virtual general election campaign that was fought but not called and, of course, it was the year of Facebook. Few had heard of the social networking site 12 months ago but today more than seven million Britons are busily poking and posting. Four in 10 British adults have signed up with social networking sites such as Facebook, Bebo and MySpace, making us the biggest users in Europe. The science-fiction author Philip K Dick defined reality as \"that which when you stop believing in it does not go away\" - but even Dick's dystopian imagination could not have dreamed up Second Life, where those disenchanted by reality can pretend they live in another world. Meanwhile, in the real world, four million bloggers blurred the borders between the private and the personal, and every concert you attend is marred by the sight of outstretched hands holding phone cameras recording songs for imminent posting on YouTube. You don't need to be Jean Baudrillard to appreciate the cultural significance of this obsession, and one does not need to be a technophobe to believe we should be concerned about this triumph of the virtual over the visceral. New year resolutions may be as fragile as a dandelion in a hurricane, but my resolution for 2008 is to resist this retreat from reality. My phone doesn't have a camera, and the last time I played a computer game was when the Commodore 64 represented the bleeding edge of technology. And despite the best efforts of those who should know better, I have not signed up on Facebook - I am not interested in minute-by-minute updates on the lives of others, and I prefer conversation to communication. The lure of social network sites like Facebook is that they claim to help us stay in touch; blogging offers everyone a voice; user-generated sites like YouTube allow us all to broadcast to the world. Its an enticing pitch but it comes with a price: the danger that we become spectators to our lives, too busy recording the concert to enjoy the music, too busy chatting online to talk to our families. It is not enough to desist from the bland virtual embrace, my aspiration for this coming year is to live more fully in the moment. This means spending less time online and more time in the kitchen. I used to consider food to be little more than fuel; takeaways and pasta were the dull but reassuringly time-efficient staples of my diet. The only time I ate well was when I returned home and feasted on my mother's cooking. Having tired of the rubbish I was eating, I resolved to start learning some of my mother's recipes. I used to believe that cooking was a waste of my valuable time, but now it is the process I enjoy most. Rather than being the dull utilitarian practice I imagined, cooking is in fact the most creative all art forms. And there is something deeply satisfying about taking separate ingredients and creating something new and unique, which is then instantly consumed. The great appeal of cooking is that while you can have a virtual friend and play online scrabble, you cannot cook a virtual saag aloo. The sensation of chopping and slicing and stirring, the smell of chilli powder and tandoori masala as it simmers with the olive oil and chopped tomatoes and onions and potatoes are all so gloriously real - and they demand one is engaged in the living moment. Admittedly, I am fortunate because for me cooking is a choice rather than a chore or responsibility; my mother has spent the best part of her life feeding others and I suspect she would be less persuaded that cooking is as liberating as I claim. Nonetheless, cooking can be one of the best defences against encroaching virtuality. It is not only creative, it also encourages social interaction: when I ate takeaways I ate alone, now that I cook I want to invite others to share my food. When so much of modern life is passive, cooking demands an active engagement with the present, and it reminds us that life is not a spectator sport - it is there to be savoured. sarfrazmanzoor.co.uk",
  "title": "Sarfraz Manzoor: The spices of life",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/youtube",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "Sarfraz Manzoor: Cooking is my way of challenging the triumph of the virtual over reality",
  "id": "commentisfree/2008/jan/01/comment.socialnetworking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}