{
  "content": "Day by day we learn a little more about the seventh-day Sun. Today, The Sun has devoted a spread to boosting its new issue, with a big plug for the fact that both the Saturday and Sunday papers will cost 50p each. Trinity Mirror (TM) executives were somewhat miffed by my opinion that its publications will be hit hard by the launch. But, as I warned, the Rupert Murdoch blitzkrieg will hurt them, and the pricing of the weekend Suns is just the first example. TM's response - geographically selective price cuts to the Sunday Mirror and The People - is noticeably half-hearted. I turned on the radio this morning to hear a Sun ad. At Holborn tube station yesterday, I saw a giant Sun poster ad. I've seen ads on hoardings. TV channels are showing ads. The paper is, quite naturally, promoting its new issue with gusto. Meanwhile, the rest of the media are doing the job for free - radio and TV programmes, BBC and commercial, have been talking about it. News and feature segments are planned for Sunday. National newspaper launches almost always attract big publicity (the Daily Star on Sunday was alone in not doing so). A Murdoch launch at a time of such controversy has been greeted with even more attention. We are learning day by a day a little more about what to expect. The team of columnists will include retired footballer Roy Keane, a goodish choice, and Nancy Dell'Olio, a more suspect selection, and Toby Young, a surprise choice to all those who don't know him, but not so surprising to those of us who do. Young, a free-thinking libertarian, is a Spectator columnist and founder of a London free school who has long been one of The Sun's greatest fans. A \"mystery columnist\" is to be unveiled tomorrow. There are wild suggestions, such as the return of Kelvin MacKenzie, perhaps, or Richard Littlejohn (both now ensconced at the Daily Mail). That would be the biggest surprise of all. There have been expectations that the paper's associate editor, Trevor Kavanagh, might move his weekly column to the Sunday. But Young is writing a political column, and the paper has appointed a political editor in David Wooding - one of the few refugees from the News of the World. A Twitterer, calling him or herself The Sunday Insider, has been tweeting furiously about all manner of rumours, suggesting that Murdoch was most displeased by Kavanagh's famous witch-hunt column. So, says Insider, Kavanagh and editor Dominic Mohan will soon be on their bikes. If that sounds far-fetched, then Insider further claims that Kavanagh met Mail editor Paul Dacre, which also infuriated Murdoch. Indeed, there are a whole set of allegations - about Tesco not advertising, a Merseyside boycott of the paper and the likelihood of articles about Labour MP Tom Watson. Insider appears to have created the Twitter account on Tuesday (21 February). Only time will tell if all this springs from genuine inside knowledge or if it is something of a spoiling operation. As for spoilers, the Daily Mirror went in for a rather pathetic one this morning by lampooning Nancy Dell'Olio for her dress sense - on page 33 of all places. The piece was bylined Vicki Newton, presumably a \"joke\" reference to The Sun's Victoria Newton. The Mirror will need to up its game considerably if it has any hope of fighting off Murdoch.",
  "title": "Sun on Sunday heat builds amid a swirl of rumours",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/sun-on-sunday",
    "media/rupert-murdoch",
    "media/sun",
    "media/trevor-kavanagh",
    "media/kelvin-mackenzie",
    "media/toby-young",
    "football/roy-keane",
    "media/daily-mirror",
    "media/trinity-mirror",
    "media/sundaymirror",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "lifeandstyle/nancy-dell-olio",
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/dominic-mohan",
    "media/pauldacre",
    "politics/tom-watson",
    "media/advertising",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "business/tesco",
    "media/daily-star-sunday",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/newsoftheworld"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade on the promotion, wanted and unwanted, that surrounds the launch of Rupert Murdoch's new issue",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2012/feb/24/sun-on-sunday-rupert-murdoch",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}