{
  "content": "CNN took some flack this week for a rather tardy Twitter feed - it appeared to post 'breaking news' about the California earthquake a good five hours after the event. By that time, most of Twitter were, like, totally over the whole earthquake thing - and were therefore quite scathing. Photo by tinou bao on Flickr. Some rights reserved. The only thing is, it turns out that wasn't an official CNN feed at all, but one set up by a Twitter user who just wanted to be able to get breaking news on his phone. James Cox is a developer and entrepreneur (more about his project soon...) who said CNN's email service isn't really enough, and, particularly with breaking news, people tend to communicate that by phone. He explained: \"It's been running for almost a couple of years now, and has 28,662 followers - or about 1.14% of [CNN's] 10-year-long mailing list. It is 4th on a Google search for CNN breaking news - and I suspect is a contributing factor to the growth of Twitter from non techie types.\" So why was the CNN feed so late with the news? \"I've been fiddling with different sources of news - CNN US, CNN international - Europe and Asia - to find an optimum set of sources to cover news that matters. \"It turns out there isn't a lot of co-ordination within the various CNN departments, so you often get duplicate messages on the different feeds. This clearly sucks, as Summize proved. I was also in the process of changing servers, so I paused the update script, to prevent any repeats of the duplication. Of course, during that process, a major news story was to hit - the quake in california. So, once I had re-enabled the script, the news went live... and then this happened. \"Watching the response was amazing - Summize kept saying there were new responses every time I refreshed. And, in keeping with the Twitter audience, once I had posted the mea culpa, everyone said, \"oh, no worries, thanks\". Cox said there was an assumption that he was a CNN employee, which he isn't. He's just a news junkie. So does he feel a bit guilty for using their brand for his own ends? \"I do indeed wield the power of their brand: if I posted right now that Bush is due to be impeached, or that Diet Coke really still contained cocaine - I think the repercussions would be unpleasant. So I've been walking a fine line, ensuring that I keep somewhat under the radar, whilst also wishing that it would become even more popular.\" \"It turns out that, in the age of feeds and the firehose of media, people still want arbiters of content. \"The role of editor is becoming more and more important, hence the idea that I might be actively posting to Twitter on CNN's behalf (like the Mars rover or JetBlue people) is intriguing.\" Technorati Tags: CNN, Twitter",
  "title": "The 'CNN breaking news' Twitter - revealed!",
  "lead": " took some flack this week for a rather tardy  feed - it appeared to post 'breaking news' about the California earthquake a good five hours after the event. By that time, most of Twitter were, like, totally over the whole earthquake thing - and were therefore quite scathing.",
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/media",
    "media/cnn",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/pda/2008/aug/01/thecnnbreakingnewstwitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}