{
  "content": "In one of the first Tintin books, our intrepid boy reporter hunts down the owner of a suspicious-looking car by going to the library and looking up its number plate in an impressive printed register. I've no idea if that's still how they do things in Belgium, but in the UK it's out of the question. The DVLA register of motor vehicle owners (strictly speaking, \"keepers\") is not open to the public. Unless of course you're a parking enforcement firm willing to invest \u00a32.50 a time. The Daily Mail (and, to judge by the online comments, many of its readers) seems outraged that a public body should trade in this information. So am I. As a free data campaigner, I believe that public bodies should charge only the \"marginal cost\" of distribution \u2013 in the age of the web, this means for free. In fact, I would like the DVLA database of vehicle keepers posted on the web, so that all of us \u2013 whether busybodies, neighbourhood campaigners or even intrepid boy reporters \u2013 can link every registered vehicle on our roads to a name and address. An infringement to privacy? I don't think so. Operating a motor vehicle involves responsibilities as well as rights, and one of the longest established responsibilities is that a vehicle should be traceable back to its operator. I'm merely arguing that citizens, as well as the state, should have access to this information. One of the arguments for making vehicle registers available is the \"free data principle\". As stated above, data collected by the state in the course of its duties should be available to citizens unless there are good reasons otherwise. On the day government is opening up certain information to the public with the launch of its new website data.gov.uk, this points seems even more applicable. Making vehicle data available could have all sorts of benefits to, for example, neighbourhood groups monitoring local road use. Then there's the \"little brother\" principle. We don't necessarily like traffic enforcement cameras, but most of us drive more carefully when we're under surveillance. Psychologically, the knowledge that thuggish behaviour on the roads might be traceable back to us personally (at worst, accompanied by vigilante-style retribution) might lead to more considerate and safer driving. Arguments against? Yes, there's the possibility of revenge attacks for bad driving, but the answer to that would be to come down hard on any such attacks. There's also the near certainty that one set of users of the open vehicle register will be burglars. An expensive car registered in Cheshire but spotted in a Cornwall hotel is a good indicator of rich pickings. But burglars already have ways of spotting empty houses \u2013 and, if privacy is such an overriding concern, why do so many affluent people decorate their cars with easily identifiable personal number plates? As ever, it's a matter of balance between liberty, civic duty and privacy. My belief is that, at the moment, we're tilted too far towards personal privacy. No doubt some readers will disagree.",
  "title": "DVLA's secret database | Michael Cross",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "politics/freedomofinformation",
    "world/road-transport",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/free-our-data"
  ],
  "lead": "Michael Cross: The DVLA register of motor vehicle keepers is currently not open to the public (except clamping firms) \u2013 but it should be",
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2010/jan/21/dvla-database-car-ownership",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}