{
  "content": "No doubt what the big news for digital specialists is this week. Facebook has splurged a colossal $19bn (\u00a311.4bn) on instant mobile messaging platform WhatsApp. A lot of people are asking why Mark Zuckerberg is spending so much on something that has yet to show a profit, but it's not that tricky to understand. This purchase is an obvious reaction to the fact that Facebook is losing its attraction for younger people \u2013 so it buys one of the companies attracting those younger, more active people. It also grabs a better messaging platform than its own. And realistically, it's not like Facebook doesn't have previous: it made a bid for Snapchat last year of about $3bn and has now gone big on one of the other businesses in the rapidly-growing mobile messaging sector. The potential pitfall is that it has bought something for a tonne of money that was founded back in 2009 \u2013 and mobile messaging is still a sector massively in flux. That's why commentators are asking: \"What can WhatsApp do to create a genuine return on that investment?\" The risk is that something will take over to supplant it in terms of numbers and attraction for the younger audiences, the way Facebook itself did to MySpace and that is allegedly happening to Facebook at the moment. WhatsApp already has rivals in Snapchat (which has lost its \"sexting\" image and is now a lot more respectable), Vine and fast-growing Eastern-origin platforms such as WeChat and LINE. It's unquestionably a big part of Zuckerberg's thinking: should something else come along, owning WhatsApp puts Facebook in a much stronger position and makes it that much trickier to replace. WhatsApp is still growing very fast and has 450 million users and 320 million daily users, which have a value all their own. And that in turn begs the question: will Facebook be able to resist the urge to monetise those users? WhatsApp's founders weren't big on advertising, but Facebook has been pushing it pretty hard. Now it has the direct contact details (the holy grail for mobile advertisers) and personal data of 450 million people. One wonders how long it will be before the new ownership begins to leverage that information. Of course, what's potentially really interesting is what the combination of Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram (which was acquired in 2013) could look like. It's probably not that great for its competitors, such as Snapchat and other IM platforms, if Facebook can make the sum of these parts irresistible to the teen market. I'm still not sure how the technology of the three companies will gel together, or if Facebook truly intends to keep them separate (as it has so far stated publicly). But whether it goes for amalgamation or simply being a holding company, the combined force of all three platforms would mean Facebook is capturing and cornering the peer-to-peer communications market in a way the likes of Google would kill for. Still, as gigantic and all-pervasive as Facebook is now shaping up to be, at least it isn't yet buying weaponised robotics companies. If it starts doing so, you'll find me in my bunker awaiting the imminent arrival of Skynet, or The Matrix, or possibly both. Clive Baker is the managing director of mobile marketing agency Movement. Follow them @MovementLondon Get more articles like this sent direct to your inbox by signing up for free membership to the Guardian Media Network \u2013 this content is brought to you by Guardian Professional",
  "title": "Facebook acquires WhatsApp: can it stem the youth exodus?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/whatsapp",
    "technology/chat-messaging-apps"
  ],
  "lead": "Buying the messaging platform is a bid to attract younger users, but what happens when something else grabs their attention?",
  "id": "media-network/media-network-blog/2014/feb/21/facebook-acquires-whatsapp-messaging-platform-youth",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}