{
  "content": "Anyone observing Wednesday's debate on the phone-hacking scandal in the Commons could have seen why the government benches did not want the Speaker John Bercow to give it the go-ahead. The cabinet had no agreed line and had not met as normal on Tuesday. David Cameron had been away in Afghanistan discussing UK troop numbers and the government was, in the words of Ed Miliband, \"two steps\" behind the frenetic pace of events. The sudden transformation of the issue from a containable liberal concern with privacy to one of deep and general moral outrage left ministers floundering. The clear indication from No 10 on Tuesday was that the police inquiries into phone hacking should take precedence and any decisions on wider public inquiries could await the outcome of the police investigation at some indefinite point in the future. Yet, on the flight back from Kabul on Tuesday, there was clear concern in Cameron circles about how to play the issue. In the Commons on Wednesday, Cameron tried to get on to the front foot by saying there would be public inquiries and they might be able to start soon. But the wheels of the civil service could not keep up with events. Cameron had no detail of what kind of inquiry to establish, or how many, and no clear position on whether the News Corporation takeover of BSkyB should be delayed and, if so, on what legal basis. In the three-hour debate, the attorney general Dominic Grieve, normally a safe pair of hands, struggled to convey authority or knowledge, visibly seeking advice across the government benches. Caught up on the government's shifting sands, Jeremy Hunt, the culture secretary, nodded vociferously when Nicholas Soames, the well-connected Tory MP, suggested a delay in the BSkyB decision was possible. Hunt holds a quasi-judicial position in deciding whether the assurances on media plurality given by News Corp are sufficient to maintain media plurality as defined in the Enterprise Act. But no formal shift in the government stance on the takeover emerged. By Wednesday night, Ed Miliband had hardened his lines \u2013 the News International chief executive Rebekah Wade had to quit; there had to be a judicial inquiry into press standards; and the BSkyB takeover should be delayed. Inside the coalition, the signs of division became clearer when Liberal Democrats briefed in favour of a public judicial inquiry and a delay in the BSkyB takeover. This had been party leader Nick Clegg's own instinct \u2013 he has no close liaison with Rupert Murdoch \u2013 but he was also under pressure from his own party. Sources close to the culture secretary were privately insisting that Hunt would not be rushed into waving through the BSkyB takeover. And, on Thursday morning, hours before the end of the consultation exercise, by chance it emerged that as many as 100,000 replies had been sent regarding the new assurances given by News Corp on media plurality. The first broader consultation had elicited 40,000 responses and it had taken four months to produce a decision, so it is arguable Hunt can now spend more than another four months, and certainly well beyond the summer recess, to reach a decision. By then, the chaos that is currently News Corp, the world's largest media empire, may have sorted itself out and possibly some of the people accused of systematically lying to the Press Complaints Commission will have left the organisation. Speaking in the Lords, the junior whip Baroness Rawlings insisted Hunt had no grounds legally to rethink his decision on the takeover in the light of the phone-hacking allegations. The only point at issue is media plurality. But, in practice, a delay until late autumn gives Murdoch and the government time to rethink their position. Cameron prizes his moral authority, so if the public comes to see him as a giving a hand-up to a morally depraved organisation, he will find a way to tell News Corp to back off. Delay on the takeover is the least worst option. That leaves the government to decide upon the form of the public inquiries and their timing. Conservative London mayor Boris Johnson said it should be \"immediate\" and \"no holds barred\". Chris Huhne, the energy secretary, said the inquiry had to be held in public, under oath, and that is now the consensus in cabinet, which discussed the issue on Wednesday but came to no firm decision. There is no doubt that an inquiry under the 2005 Inquiries Act will be convened \u2013 only the details of the terms of reference will have to be negotiated between the parties. The model is likely to be the Iraq war inquiry, judged a success inside the civil service and No 10. It promises to be a cruel and unusual punishment for the police, the press and the political class. Book your seats now.",
  "title": "David Cameron and the Conservatives caught on the hop over phone hacking",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/houseofcommons",
    "politics/davidcameron",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/news-corporation",
    "media/mediabusiness",
    "politics/jeremy-hunt",
    "politics/conservatives",
    "politics/liberal-conservative-coalition",
    "media/press-intrusion"
  ],
  "lead": "The government is struggling amid the escalating phone-hacking accusations against the News of the World, explains Patrick Wintour<br />",
  "id": "media/2011/jul/07/phone-hacking-scandal-david-cameron",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}