{
  "content": "The next step forward for social gaming is user-generated content. The likes of Farmville and Happy Aquarium have gained millions of players through the addictive combination of simple asset management gameplay with customisation and sharing elements - but the future is content that gamers create themselves and either swap with friends or even sell for in-game currencies. Clearly testing the water in this direction, social gaming behemoth Playfish has just launched the Pet Society Movie Awards. Players of the massively successful Facebook critter-rearing game are being invited to recreate famous scenes from classic movies using items available in the game world. Hundreds of costumes, scenic objects and interior design components are attainable, either through gaining experience in the game, or via microtransaction payments; imaginative players are able to assemble these into recognisable cinematic moments - albeit with brashly coloured pets replacing the actors. Gamers can take a photo of the scene with the in-game camera, and then submit their efforts to the dedicated Facebook page, which already has about 3000 entries. What's interesting is the way that some entrants are already subverting the 'rules', Photoshopping their characters onto actual movie scenes or creating their own comic strips. Naturally, there are a lot of Twilight-themed entries, but also, thanks to the presence of a large winding staircase and a prominent park bench in the Pet Society map, Gone With the Wind and Forrest Gump are also proving popular. The clever bit for Playfish is that winning entries (there are ten categories in all) receive Playfish Cash, so it's a totally contained endeavour. And okay, this is quite a twee little diversion, but user creativity and the subsequent marketplace that it will generate is going to be very important moving forward. There are already dozens of Facebook based around UGC, including the daft Bumper Sticker (players draw and share... bumper stickers) and Rockyou's Birthday Cards, which lets users create cards and send them to Facebook pals. Indeed Facebook is the perfect arena for UGC, because you can easily tailor your content toward your friends, and allow them to co-operate on projects. Then there's stuff like Sploder, a simple game creation utility that lets you build Flash games (without knowing Flash), and then embed them on your Facebook page. I've yet to see a Facebook game with a full drag-and-drop level editor but that's bound to be next. Meanwhile, Facebook gamers can content themselves with re-creating scenes from Casablanca using only some kittens, period head gear and a monochrome filter...",
  "title": "Pet movies win prizes  - and more about user-generated content in social games",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/games",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/casual-gaming",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "Social gaming gets its own mini-Oscars and a hint at the future of this emerging genre",
  "id": "technology/gamesblog/2010/feb/17/games-casual-gaming",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}