{
  "content": "Revenge is supposed to be a dish best eaten cold. But why stop at one dish when you're having a good time? At the Leveson inquiry into phone hacking, Chris Patten, Tory ex-cabinet minister turned grandee and gourmet, treated himself to a five-course banquet that spared neither politicians nor the newspapers before which so many had cravenly \"grovelled\". \"Yes, it's completely true,\" that Rupert Murdoch had personally intervened to prevent HarperCollins publishing his China-sensitive memoirs about his governorship of Hong Kong, confirmed Lord Patten of Barnes, who rests his chin on his hand because his brain is so heavy. Murdoch did so during his attempt (\"always doomed\") to expand his media empire into China, where he was not the only foreign businessman to think (erroneously) that it would help to kowtow to Beijing, said Patten. He did so in a matter-of-fact sort of way, as if addressing children, on the day the inquiry abandoned the fetid alleys of Fleet Street and breathed fresh air again by grilling the posh chaps from the BBC and other terrestrial TV channels. They speak the same kind of language as the lawyers (Latin); not so much a grilling as a gentle toasting with plenty of butter slapped on. So \"Lord Barnes\" (Judge Leveson's slip of the tongue) was giving evidence as chairman of the BBC Trust, not as chancellor of Oxford University or President-for-Life of the Great and the Good (Liberal Youth Faction). But he is also the first real politician to face Leveson, so the Murdoch story was prompted by David Barr QC, counsel for the inquiry, who had just emerged from a dry two and half hour exchange with Mark Thompson, director-general of the BBC. Thompson, whose successor will be paid a lot less than his \u00a3671,000, so Patten had told Monday's Murdoch-owned Times, had been meticulous in explaining the myriad safeguards, rules and reviews which guard the BBC's reputation from vulgar tabloid error. By the sound of it, it is a miracle that Panorama ever gets on air. Not a man to use one word where 10 will do, when Thompson hesitates he does not say \"Er,\" but \"Er, er, er, er\" occasionally with an added \"um, um\". When Patten's turn finally arrived he was crisp and witty, with just a hint of boredom. He told Leveson he had won an apology, secured his \u00a350,000 author's advance and sold extra copies in the US via a cover sticker proclaiming \"the book that Rupert Murdoch refused to publish\". Cash and an apology from the Murdochs is pretty routine nowadays.So many people have got them that Iain Duncan Smith is using it as an excuse for cutting the welfare bill. But this was a good 10 years ago which makes Patten a Hugh Grant before his time, the Sienna Miller of the Tory party. Patronisingly twisting the knife, he even praised Murdoch as a serious newspaperman and (wrongly) as an \"entrepreneurial genius\" online. No vendetta, he added. Rupert will be livid. By the time Patten had finished, most of his fellow politicians \u2013 Labour, Tory and Lib Dem \u2013 must have nursed hurt feelings too. They would all sleep better and take better decisions if they worried less about front pages and saw less of editors and proprietors, he advised them. Lady Thatcher mostly saw journalists she thought intelligent rather than admiring \u2013 he cited the Guardian columnist, Hugo Young \u2013 so she could argue with them. Alas, the myth had since evolved that newspapers could decide elections rather than back the side which was going to win anyway (\"help you don't need\"). As party chairman, Patten had rarely seen or phoned any of them. At that point Lord Leveson must have recalled ex-Sun editor, Kelvin MacKenzie's testimony that he told John Major (after Patten left) that he would \"pour a bucket of shit\" over him. Organise a Chequers sleepover, as another PM (Gordon Brown) had done for Murdoch cronies? Patten shuddered at the thought. It was all so pointlessly \"demeaning.\" In all this he rarely mentioned any of them by name, not Blair, Cameron or other Fleet Street greasers, preferring instead to name-drop the likes of Tom Stoppard, Coriolanus, John Milton, Ian Hislop and Trudie Styler. In its way it was magnificently anti-populist, but it could also serve as a cautionary tale: lesser men they may have been, but the greasers climbed higher up politics' greasy pole than did fastidious Lord P.",
  "title": "Michael White's sketch: Lord 'Barnes' was crisp and witty, with just a hint of boredom",
  "lead": " Revenge is supposed to be a dish best eaten cold. But why stop at one? Chris Patten treated himself to a five-course banquet",
  "tags": [
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "politics/conservatives",
    "politics/politics",
    "media/lord-patten",
    "media/rupert-murdoch",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/bbc",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2012/jan/23/leveson-sketch-lord-patten-murdoch",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}