{
  "content": "Graduated top of your class in Ghana and managed to land a place on an MBA at Oxford? Then you're heading for a salary high enough to make repaying your student loan a cinch \u2013 especially if half your Facebook followers are from McKinsey. At least, this is the kind of calculation being made by private funders stepping into the increasingly complex and competitive student loans market. New lenders to the student market, rather than basing decisions about whether or not to lend to someone on current assets and income, as conventional banks do, rely on the estimated earnings premium of a degree, combined with ever more detailed data about students' backgrounds and networks. This allows them to make decisions based on potential future salaries. Some are also beginning to plug into social media to look at a person's connections, both to assess the reliability of the potential borrower and to put pressure on defaulters. One company exploring this is Prodigy Finance, started seven years ago by three Insead business school graduates. The company offers loans to postgraduate students at leading business schools from 90 countries and is planning to expand to other subject areas. Prodigy is looking at what it can learn about students' prospects from salary sharing sites such as PayScale, which allows individuals to compare their salary with others of similar backgrounds, and Glassdoor, which shows salary levels at particular companies, as well as from their LinkedIn and Facebook profiles. It discourages defaults by working with universities to make students' repayment status available to investors, alumni and university schools. The company's chief executive, Cameron Stevens, argues that the more detailed the data available, the easier it is for people to find finance who otherwise would be denied the chance of studying for a degree, particularly those with good prospects from poorer countries. \"We are trying to assess risk on a global scale and what that means,\" he says. \"Who someone connects to is relevant. If someone tells you they have worked for McKinsey and they are connected to 100 people who work for McKinsey, it's likely that they have.\" It can also work the other way, though. \"If you know all your defaulters are connected to a particular group of people, then you don't want to lend to those people either. \"The fundamentals of what we do are completely universal,\" he says. \"What is the earnings potential, how do we qualify that, how do we get data to support that \u2013 these are decisions that are completely relevant to undergraduate level and to multiple degrees.\" Brian Norton, chief executive of Future Finance, set up last May to lend to students studying in the UK, says making lending decisions based on estimated future earnings is \"common sense\". His company draws on publicly available data from the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (Ucas) and from the Higher Education Statistics Agency (Hesa), as well as a database built up by a private student finance service in Germany, to make estimates about the employability and earnings prospects of particular courses and institutions. Future Finance hopes to build up its own database over time. Its estimates throw up some surprises. For example, it has calculated that students who studied social work at the University of Strathclyde (currently 38th in the Guardian's University Guide ranking) earned \u00a331,000 during their first year after graduation, \u00a31,000 more than students who studied computer science at Cambridge (first in the Guardian's ranking), while students who studied nursing at the University of Hertfordshire (66th in the Guardian's ranking) earned \u00a325,245 in their first year after graduation, over 20% (\u00a34,245) more than students who studied nursing at the University of Edinburgh (18th in the Guardian's ranking). While Norton says the company considered using social media sources of information, it decided too much \"noise\" made it difficult to identify what was useful. But he predicts an increasingly crowded and varied student lending market as higher fees continue and data sources improve. Private lenders are not the only ones interested in the relationship between graduates' future earnings and how they pay their way through university. In the next few weeks the Nuffield Foundation will produce the first results from a study plotting students' tax records against information supplied by the Student Loans Company. Initial results will give generic data on average graduate earnings across the sector around 10 years after graduation, and how they vary, suggesting what proportion of the population is likely to pay off their student loan, while further analyses due to be published later in the year will allow a more detailed breakdown of salaries related to course, type of institution and students' socio-economic background. Anna Vignoles, professor of education at the University of Cambridge, who is co-authoring the report with Neil Shephard, professor of economics at Oxford, says a key purpose of the project is to improve information for students. \"It's important that students have more nuanced, better information about the earnings of graduates from different institutions.\" But many feel the implications of the project could go further, and both public- and private-sector interests are keeping a close eye on its findings. More detailed data on student earnings will be important for any future sale of the student loan book, as well as for other proposals on paying for student financing, including the idea, mooted by the former universities secretary David Willetts, that universities could become responsible for taking on all or part of their students' tuition fee debts as an incentive to help them into well-paid jobs once they leave. The suggestion met a mixed reaction when Willetts proposed it shortly after leaving his post last July, but insiders suggest Number 10 is interested and that it is likely to come back to the agenda after the election, especially if budgets are tightened and plans to abolish the cap on student numbers go ahead. Nick Barr, professor of public economics at the London School of Economics, favours a model, laid out in a 2010 paper with Shephard, in which universities pay an insurance premium calculated according to the earnings of their graduates, to cover student borrowing for fees above a baseline figure. He says any move towards universities shouldering student loan debt depends on knowing what premium to set for them and \"that's the essay question Shephard and Vignole's research will start to answer\". Nick Hillman, director of the Higher Education Policy Institute thinktank, suggests earnings data could help lower-ranked universities to buy student debt at a lower rate than other institutions and make up the difference by getting their students into well paid employment. Top universities could also use it to charge fees above the current \u00a39,000 on the grounds that most of their students secure salaries that are easily able to support higher loans, although parliamentary approval for this could be hard to get. He says while many academics dislike the idea of making too close a correlation between earnings potential and student access to finance, the debate is already taking place elsewhere in Europe and in the United States. From July, universities and colleges in the US will risk losing federal funding if the ratio between what students earn at the end of their studies and what they have paid to study is too low. Yet he acknowledges that sceptical academics do have a point. While private loan companies can decide to lend only to those destined to earn a high salary, any government scheme will also need to cover students on courses related to jobs that pay low wages but deserve support, such as nursing. There are practical problems too. Charlie Ball, deputy director of research at the Higher Education Careers Services Unit, says there is no guarantee that a student who seems destined for a particular career at 21 will continue on that path. \"About 70% of the jobs market is available to most graduates from most degrees,\" he says. \"It is not helpful to say if you take this degree this is what you will earn.\" Barr says that however good the data, making loans to finance a qualification is inherently risky because there is no physical collateral. While using some of the tactics employed by private companies, such as naming and shaming defaulters, could mitigate some risks, it also raises others to do with ethics and the possibility of getting things wrong. He feels the true value of the work being done by Shephard and Vignoles is to make a case for linking data on students drawn from across government departments. This, he says, should help \"get proper answers to questions of what are the real impediments to participation\" and what calculations students themselves are making about what a university degree is worth.",
  "title": "Why your Facebook friends could scupper a student loan",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "education/students",
    "education/universityfunding",
    "education/accesstouniversity",
    "education/higher-education",
    "education/education",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "money/money",
    "money/student-finance",
    "money/debt",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "lead": "As private lenders enter the student loans market, eligibility to borrow for a degree could depend on people's potential earnings \u2013 and social media contacts",
  "id": "education/2015/feb/09/facebook-friends-student-loan-finance-earnings",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}