{
  "content": "There is nothing certain about 2016 except the fact, carved in stone, that you believe you will never, ever click on a targeted ad. They float in the blind spots of our web scrolls, drawn in MS Paint, drawn in Comic Sans. They are ghosts of regrettable clicks \u2013 cookies remaining long after the yearning for an orthopaedic pillow has gone. They offer us solutions we never wanted for problems we've never had. And yet they live on, the scorpions of the internet, they live on even as the sites they populate evolve and disappear. They simply follow us into our new home, another website, another warm darkness in which they can sleep, and feed, and live forever. But someone must be clicking. Somebody, some kind man in a flat in Caerphilly, some gentle martyr, must be clicking. Must have taken voluntary redundancy and bought eight thimbles in order to keep the internet free for the rest of us. Must be sitting with the curtains closed, 15 laptops open, clicking and clicking, and only occasionally believing it will help him get a flat stomach in only five minutes. But what if. What if this was the year we clicked? What would it take for our mouses to hover left? Targeted ad writers, do take note. One weird secret that will save Syria! Trouble making zero carbon emissions? Watch this quick video to learn how Sponsor the cutest baby refugee EVER! Born at sea! Tip for a tiny plastic doll belly Slide into her DMs like diabetes in your 40s Learn how to make her love your mind\u2026 and your content Make millions at home from selling Tesco bags for 9p Women old enough to be your mother pretending to be girls young enough to be your daughter, in your area now 12 celebrities you didn't realise weren't the same person Mum How to gentrify your vagina in one hour One simple trick that will make you look like you care about Europe Britain's anxiety about what Trump's popularity says about us, in 6 flirty gifs How to get people to rebrand you as plus-sized in just one day Leave Twitter and London and meat... with just one click A facelift for your feminism. Update your idols for 2016... now The best buy-to-let boyfriend deals on the internet The 8 best spots to watch ice caps melting, in pics This list of the 20 lowest-paid female FTSE CEOs may shock you Top 12 links to share right now without reading to the end 5 thoughts to think right now! Avoid the NHS waiting list by carrying around this heavy bottle of tap water The lying woman's secret tip to having it all Perform this secret hand gesture from your car to make every woman think you're very well hung How to be the Bake Off character you were born to be Watch how you could transform your stairwell into a chic rental opportunity in just 30 seconds This creepy barn could be the wedding venue you settle on First-time buyers click here! What you see next will shock and scare you This trading algorithm will delight and confuse you out of thousands of pounds 4 simple tricks to help your dad talk about trans people like human beings This is what one cigarette does to your body after helping you look cool in front of Gemma Aw! These millennials say the cutest things\u2026 Email Eva at e.wiseman@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @EvaWiseman",
  "title": "What's going to get you clicking in 2016? | Eva Wiseman",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "culture/culture",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Donald Trump, home envy, the NHS\u2026 Here's a list of some likely bait and targeted ads that will be hoping to lure your mouse in the year ahead",
  "id": "lifeandstyle/2016/jan/03/what-going-to-get-you-clicking-social-media-targeted-ads-eva-wiseman",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}