{
  "content": "When ITV bought Friends Reunited in December 2005, attention focused on how the nationwide reach of the broadcaster and the online know-how of the social networking site would prove mutually beneficial. But amid the enthusiasm there was little scrutiny of the price tag. ITV paid \u00a3120m - with another \u00a355m to be delivered four years later - for a business with predicted revenues of just \u00a312.4m that year. Now it appears that ITV overpaid colossally for the site: it may offload Friends Reunited for as little as \u00a315m. An announcement could be made as early as Thursday, when the company reports interim results. Revenues at the site were just \u00a318m last year, down from a peak of \u00a322m in 2007, reflecting ITV's decision to abandon subscription in favour of a free, advertising-funded model. It is easy to be wise after the event, of course. ITV - then run by Charles Allen - decided to buy Friends Reunited at a time when traditional companies were desperate to secure a stake in the digital future, despite the eye-watering prices. Just a few months earlier, in July 2005, Rupert Murdoch had demonstrated his enthusiasm for the internet by paying $580m (then \u00a3331m) for MySpace, which was soon being hailed by rival executives as a steal - WPP's Sir Martin Sorrell said he was told by the Japanese IT boss Masayoshi Son that it was actually worth $4.5bn. That deal looks less clever today, with MySpace shedding workers and finding itself overtaken by Facebook. However, Murdoch did cover his costs via a Google advertising deal, due to end next year, guaranteeing $900m in revenue, if certain traffic targets were met. Bebo, another former social networking star, also came with a price tag that in hindsight looks high - AOL paid $850m for it in March 2008. But like MySpace, Bebo's performance figures - both in terms of time spent on the site per user, and number of page views - are falling away. Even the world's leading social networking site, Facebook, which passed the 200 million-user mark in April, is difficult to value. When Microsoft bought a 1.6% stake back in 2007, the $240m price tag indicated a value of $15bn. But by May this year, when the Russian group Digital Sky Technologies invested $200m for a 2% stake through preference shares, the putative value had fallen by a third to $10bn. With revenues estimated at $500m this year (the company has not disclosed figures), that would suggest that Facebook is worth 20 times its annual revenues - a valuation that would have to rely on growth of dizzying proportions. \"Recent valuations have looked extraordinarily big to us, and built on assumptions that you will be able to lock in enormous display advertising growth alongside user numbers and page counts,\" says Douglas McCabe, media analyst at Enders Analysis. \"We think that's a wrong-headed assumption at a pretty fundamental level.\" Others think there are opportunities ahead if social networking sites develop more sophisticated approaches to advertising that feel less intrusive to the user.\"Once they get advertising down to a science in social networking, that's when you start monetising [it],\" says Daniel Hong, an analyst at Datamonitor. But can companies afford to wait for that moment? Social networking trends can change extremely quickly. Friends Reunited may be one of the oldest networking sites, but is just nine years old. Facebook has come from nowhere to dominate the landscape in five years. Twitter is currently sprinkled across the news - but what could come along in 2010? Users are fickle and faddish, and the advertising money will always follow the traffic. \"When anything grows that quickly, you have to be concerned that tomorrow might bring growth in a completely different service that people start jumping to,\" says McCabe. \"No one can rule out a rapid decline of a business like Facebook or MySpace and the rapid growth of a new incoming service.\" Hong agrees that it is hard to make a call on which sites will last the distance.\"There's absolutely no foolproof way of knowing whether these social networking sites right now have long-term viability,\" he says. ITV's experience with Friends Reunited provides an object lesson in what can go wrong when a company puts hope ahead of cold financial logic.",
  "title": "How do you value sites such as Bebo and Facebook?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/bebo",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "It now appears that ITV overpaid colossally for Friends Reunited and that they might be forced to offload the social network for fraction of what they originally paid. Chris Tryhorn reports",
  "id": "media/2009/aug/03/value-social-networking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}