{
  "content": "There are often fallouts from major international sporting events, and as the dust settles, the aftermath of the World Cup is no different. Discussions about England's failings, the host's legacy and players of the tournament usually dominate. From a media perspective, we normally reflect on effective TV advertisements and the impact of brand sponsorship. However, surpassing last year's Super Bowl, this year's World Cup was also the most social sporting event ever. Twitter appears to have claimed the biggest victory, stating that 672m tweets were posted around the tournament, compared to 280m posts on Facebook. There has been radio silence from Instagram in the week after the tournament, however, with no such announcement from the brand. Brands kicking-off These high volumes of social media posts didn't just come from fans, of course. Brands are becoming increasingly well-versed in ramping up social activity around big events; shortly after Germany lifted the World Cup trophy, Mercedes-Benz tweeted an image of the national football team's crest, with the manufacturer's logo featuring as an extra star to mark the victory. Over on Facebook, Adidas celebrated Mario G\u00f6tze's strike which sealed victory for a team sporting the triple-striped brand with a post stating that not just a team but an entire nation had won, followed by its #allin hashtag. And Instagram hosted some great images from the final: G\u00f6tze posed with arguably the world's greatest player, defeated finalist Lionel Messi and German chancellor Angela Merkel appeared in some politically-empowering changing room images with the team, as the Guardian recently analysed. So personal brands were enhanced on Instagram, but business activity was not as noticeable here when compared to those other platforms. One brand with sporting social media prowess, Oreo, did produce an Instagram video before a USA match. But in general, brands were quieter here than on other platforms. Choice of platforms Many brands I speak with have a social media guidebook in place. These are designed to make sure the organisation behaves in a certain strategic manner, and speaks in a consistent style, covering areas which are appropriate and interesting to the business and its customers. Instagram has a refreshing thirst for authenticity, with founder Kevin Systrom claiming to still check each advert manually. Its unrelenting focus on beautiful images makes for an uncluttered experience, one where the words do not get in the way of a good picture. For brands desperate to share a simple message, it can be great. Eight steps to glory More brands should take advantage of Instagram. However, with staff experience of the platform still limited beyond personal life use, guideline documents might have to be drafted from scratch. Here are eight golden rules that brands should incorporate into an Instagram strategy: 1) Make sure content targets your core audience and makes an impact This can be achieved through detailed planning, audience profiling and storytelling through conversations with your Instagram followers. The planning phase needs to include key objectives for the campaign, deliverables, assets to be utilised, delegation of roles and risk assessment with how they will be mitigated. 2) Take time to define your audience This should go beyond demographics to understand spending habits, existing attitudes towards the product and service, lifestyle patterns that harmonise with the brand, plus other brands that they already follow on Instagram. 3) Have a definite story you want to tell through the platform Use Instagram to share what you love about your business location and the surrounding community. You can also show your followers some behind-the-scenes shots to help them know and love your business. 4) Use hashtags effectively With public Instagram accounts, anyone searching for a hashtag used in a photo caption will be able to see that image. This is a great way to get specific photos and brand accounts a lot more attention. Don't overuse though: this can be annoying for your audience. 5) Write great photo descriptions Create something engaging that both describes the image and reflects your brand's message. You can also link to the product page on your site; however, people will need to copy and paste into a browser to access the page. 6) Decide on the best frequency of posts You don't want to saturate followers' feeds: this can be annoying and lead to unfollows. 7) Offer something different on Instagram It can be tempting to rehash content you've already published on Twitter and Facebook, but then people will have no reason to follow you on Instagram. 8) Converse with your audience and listen to feedback If followers engage with certain images over others, be flexible with your plan and give people what they like most. Join the conversation. Answer questions and thank people for being loyal \u2013 reward fans with contests and promo codes based on user-generated content. Follow people back and \"like\" their photos when they are relevant to your brand. Encourage your followers to share your photos and your page \u2013 feature your fans' photos by encouraging them to use a hashtag or tag your Instagram handle when they are posting a picture. Phil Stelter is managing director at Unique Digital To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled 'Advertisement feature'. Find out more here.",
  "title": "Instagram for brands: eight simple steps to master the platform",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "technology/instagram",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/advertising",
    "football/world-cup-football"
  ],
  "lead": "With brands shying away from the photo-sharing service during the World Cup, here are eight rules for companies to follow <br /><br />",
  "id": "media-network/media-network-blog/2014/jul/25/instagram-brands-photo-master-platform",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}