{
  "content": "Mary Beard \u2013 national treasure, et cetera and so forth \u2013 has been profiled in the New Yorker \u2013 and, quite properly, this profile has attracted much proud attention in this country. Less properly but just as predictably, the attention has focused on how she \"tamed\" her trolls. Beard, like many women, was threatened by idiots who are so confident about their masculinity that they spend their time online sending rape threats to women they don't know. The profile describes at length how Beard's \"zest for online fray\" encouraged her to engage with some men trolling her \u2013 one called her \"evil\", another ingeniously stuck a vagina on a photo of Beard's face \u2013 and they, in turn, offered what the New Yorker writer describes as \"poignant explanation[s]\" for their behaviour. In the case of the man who called her evil, it turned out he was \"mostly upset because he wanted to move to Spain and didn't understand the bureaucracy\". As for Mr Vagina Face, who turned out to be a married father with children, he \"said how he shouldn't have done it, in a way that was very eloquent\", says the unflappable Beard. In the case of another troll, she ended up helping him find employment. \"How do you tackle your troll? Write his job reference, says Mary Beard,\" read the front page of this paper. This a lovely story, no question, a fable for our times. Personally, I'd have complained to the Crown Prosecution Service about Mr Vagina Face, but that aside, lovely story. Yet what it is not, despite how the media has spun it, is a story that is in any way representative of the usual nature of trolling. While the papers in this country and the New Yorker were crowing about how Beard had, through her own gutsy initiative, tamed her trolls, another woman \u2013 Anita Sarkeesian, a Canadian-American journalist \u2013 was being trolled. I first came across Sarkeesian's blog, Feminist Frequency, several years ago when I was writing about sexist film cliches in my last book, and I happened upon her series Tropes vs Women, in which she discussed precisely that. In her later series, Tropes vs Women in Video Games, she points out that \u2013 waddyaknow \u2013 some video games are a bit sexist. To prove just how wrong this theory is, a significant number of gamers have, for the past two years, trolled Sarkeesian, threatening her with rape and violence of the most gruesome and sexual nature. This week, while the papers here were praising Beard for taming her trolls through sheer niceness and patience, the threats got so bad that Sarkeesian had to leave her home. There are many conclusions one can draw from this deeply unpleasant saga, but I'm going to limit myself to just two. First, it is remarkable how much more viciously a woman is trolled when she writes about what is seen as a male preserve, as gaming is, than in any other context. I've written about fashion, feminism, pop culture and, occasionally, Judaism for this paper for 14 years, but it wasn't until I was sent to Brazil in June to help cover the World Cup that I would wake up daily to messages from strangers informing me of their desire to punch me \"in the vagina and boobs\" and kick me \"in the uterus\". These trebled when I wrote about sexism in football (I'm pretty sure I'm the first person on the planet to note the existence of that.) Nothing enrages some men \u2013 for it was always men \u2013 more than the prospect of a woman in their toy box, sharing their playthings. The other thing is this: trolling is not something that those on the receiving end can control. I'm really bored with people telling victims that they should control the actions of perpetrators, whether it's women being told not to drink too much so as not to tempt the rapists on nights out or the trolled being told to tame trolls. To be trolled is not being told by one or two people that you're ugly, it's when countless anonymous people on the web scream at you and make you feel threatened. Being female, I was raised to be nice and appeasing and I used to try to talk to trolls in the belief I could \"win them round\". The result of this brief experiment was that they encouraged their followers to tell me how they would rape me. To talk to these people is to look into one of humanity's grimmest swamps. \"But rape and death threats are illegal!\" you say. Indeed they are. Which is why I called the police last summer when some moron told me he'd put a bomb outside my flat. When they arrived, I had to explain what Twitter was. Beard is an anomaly in many ways, but there is one instructive lesson that we can take from her experience: apparently some trolls are open to learning the error of their ways. If this is true, then anti-trolling lessons should be included in school rather than left up to women to school trolls after the fact. (\"Lesson one: don't send photos of genitalia to Mary Beard.\") To say that trolls, or rapists, or domestic abusers, cannot be controlled by those they victimise does not disempower the victims: it is a reminder of who really is culpable here. Hurrah for Beard for taming her trolls. But not all of us, alas, are Mary Beard. Twitter: @HadleyFreeman",
  "title": "'How to tame your troll' only really works if you're Mary Beard | Hadley Freeman",
  "lead": "Hadley Freeman: Online abuse can't be controlled by those on the receiving end of it any more than rape can. After all, who's culpable here?",
  "tags": [
    "books/mary-beard",
    "society/cyberbullying",
    "technology/internet",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/bullying",
    "society/society"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/aug/29/tame-troll-mary-beard-online-abuse",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}