{
  "content": "Private Eye's latest cover shows a picture of Donald Trump, hand on bible, at his inauguration with a speech bubble saying: \"I swear to tell the post-truth, the alternative truth and nothing like the truth.\" Excellent stuff and, unsurprisingly, it raised a laugh last night at the first of my monthly series of conversations at the Frontline Club, The Editor's View. I hadn't noticed until this morning that the New York Times is now trying to sell subscriptions based on the comment by Trump's adviser, Kellyanne Conway, about there being \"alternative facts.\" The paper's promotional ad says: \"No alternatives, just facts... In a world of fake news, independent, fact-based journalism stands apart.\" But the joke that is Trump, with his own outrageous lies and a team of dissemblers - such as Conway and the White House press secretary Sean Spicer - does have the disturbing effect of legitimising falsehood. That problem was chewed over by the Frontline panel: the BBC's technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones; Financial Times technology writer Madhumita Murgia; Channel 4 News editor Ben de Pear and Huffington Post's deputy political editor Owen Bennett. As was pointed out, Facebook is trying, if belatedly, to do something positive to counter the fake news trend. In mid-December it announced that it was testing a system to identify fraudulent news stories. Now, as Associated Press reported, Facebook is updating its trending list feature to favour verified news stories and to counter fake news. The list will be based on topics covered by several publishers, rather than on subjects that draw the largest number of people who share or comment on posts. This is something of a change of mind by Facebook's founder and chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, who initially brushed aside the notion that anything positive could be done to deal with the problem (which he didn't see as serious anyway). It is hoped, according to Facebook's vice president of product management, Will Cathcart, that the new system will steer users towards topics that \"reflect real world events being covered by multiple outlets.\" Maybe. While it might choke off some fake news purveyors, some panellists thought many people enjoy the false stuff. It amuses them and they believe they can tell the difference between what is real and what is not. However, one other Facebook initiative - the banishing of consistent publishers of false information from its ad network - could make a difference. That echoes a similar move by Google, which operates an even larger digital ad network. After a review, it has exiled about 200 publishers from its AdSense network for various misrepresentations. But is fake news all the fault of social media? Cellan-Jones rightly pointed out that old media, traditional media, legacy media, mainstream media, whatever we choose to call it, has a history rich in the transmission of dodgy news. We journalists working for traditional media organisations have a responsibility to counter fake news, of course. But in our glasshouse, who are we to throw stones?",
  "title": "Facebook is trying to tackle fake news, but what should we do?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/social-media",
    "us-news/donaldtrump",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/google",
    "media/financialtimes",
    "media/channel4",
    "media/huffington-post",
    "media/bbc",
    "media/private-eye",
    "media/new-york-times",
    "us-news/sean-spicer"
  ],
  "lead": "Frontline Club panel discuss the problem of 'alternative facts' and concede that social media is not the only organisation publishing falsehoods",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2017/jan/26/facebook-is-trying-to-tackle-fake-news-but-what-should-we-do",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}