{
  "content": "The borders of privacy have been ardently disputed in recent years. On the one hand, a public culture of openness and transparency seems a necessary good: we do not want states and politicians keeping secrets from the electorate and snooping on their citizens' every activity. Nor do we want corporate giants silencing a responsible press and preventing exposure, say, of toxic waste clandestinely dumped or of what goes into a burger. On the other hand, most who can still remember an era before intimate telephone conversations were broadcast on streets and trains feel more than a little squeamish about just how many of our private parts need public exhibition before the polity as a whole is irredeemably mired. For those whose consciousness took shape before mobiles and social networking were the norm, Paul McMullan's exclamation at the Leveson inquiry that \"privacy is for paedos\" had the shocking resonance of a wake-up call. George Orwell's dystopian, all-seeing Big Brother, who eradicated the possibility of any private life or unspoken thoughts, had once and for all morphed into his gameshow double. In our epoch of tabloid culture, many want nothing more than to parade for our voyeuristic delight what was once sheltered behind (self-)patrolled boundaries. Or to drag others' secrets into global public display and regale everyone in the process. The National Trust's branding of the Big Brother house as the \"stately home of the digital era\" is just one more sign of such times. Psychoanalyst and literary academic Josh Cohen provides a subtle and stimulating reflection on this second aspect of privacy. The unholy \"alliance between voyeurism and exhibitionism\" that marks our epoch's recalibration of the private is his lead subject. Our need to know, to probe secrets, he argues, is much more than an extension of the child's Alice in Wonderland curiosity. It is a punishing quest, fuelled by \"envy and vindictive rage\", against any who are perceived to have more than us. That more is not just financial: it's an amorphous \"more\" that includes pleasure, beauty and happiness, that added extra that is always there in the eye of the beholder. What envy isn't for Cohen in any simple way is the old revolutionary motor towards greater equality. He diagnoses our passion for exposure as a wish that nothing should remain unknown to us. He also recognises that the emphasis on needing to know everything about the other mirrors the suspicion that there is always something we don't know. This is the motor of our fury. One of the reasons \"why we remain in the dark\", according to Cohen, is that the private self is in no simple way a readily accessible accumulation of mental furnishings and known narratives. For the psychoanalyst as for lovers of literature, the self is a complicated entity always greater than the sum of its listable parts. Within the self, there is an unknown other who is inevitably lost in the translation (whether in confession or even consulting room). This inner stranger, who is also uncannily familiar, is a repository of irreducible excesses \u2013 the acts we indulge in against our own self-interest and conscious will, the bits that are too scary to acknowledge. Our epoch's frenzied attack on privacy may well be an attack on that all-too-human complexity which totalitarian states also sought to abolish. The Private Life bears an affinity with The Examined Life, psychoanalyst Stephen Grosz's bestselling tales from the consulting room. In probing the vagaries and vulnerabilities of the human, Cohen, too, gives us fascinating glimpses of cases. He weaves autobiographical fragments into his narrative, perhaps to emphasise that the analyst is not the all-seeing authority that popular culture paraded in the middle of the last century. Close to Darian Leader and Slavoj \u017di\u017eek in his understanding of the uses of psychoanalysis, Cohen also engages in some astute reading of literature and popular culture. He is particularly good on the enigmatic Man Booker winner Lydia Davis. Lisa Appignanesi's Paris Requiem (Arcadia) and Losing the Dead (Virago) are out now",
  "title": "The Private Life: Why We Remain in the Dark by Josh Cohen \u2013 review",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "books/society",
    "books/books",
    "culture/culture",
    "science/psychology",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "tv-and-radio/reality-tv",
    "media/media",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Josh Cohen's study of our need to expose our own private lives and those of others is both perceptive and engaging, writes Lisa Appignanesi",
  "id": "books/2013/nov/02/josh-cohen-private-life-review",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}