{
  "content": "Lower your mind to the gutter for a moment and think of three of the trashiest events of 2002. An early contender might be the plan by silicone-boosted \"model\" Jordan to have a live webcam in at the birth of her first child, relaying pictures of the occasion to any internet user willing to pay-per-view. Or perhaps you'd nominate the News of the World's expose - \"TV Deayton's Drugs Romp with Vice Girl\" - of Angus's off-air activities in a Manchester hotel. Others might plump for that warm July evening when millions of Channel 4 viewers could see Big Brother contestant Jade first row tearfully with her housemates, then get blind drunk, before finally losing a quiz version of strip poker - obliging her to remove all her clothes before our very eyes. Whichever moment is the stand-out one for you, a common motif emerges: the death of privacy. In 21st century Britain, it seems, privacy is heading the way of chivalry or deference into the dustbin of discarded values. It's under assault from all sides - whether an intrusive press, prying big-business or a nosey government. But the biggest threat to privacy may not lie in these external menaces at all - but somewhere much more unexpected. Start with the most visibly endangered private lives - those belonging to public figures. One case after another, dragged before the courts or the press complaints commission, has centred on the same violation: an unwanted intrusion into a sphere the victim wanted to keep private. It might be those holiday snaps of Anna Ford, along with her astronaut partner, rubbing suncream into each other and kitted out in swimwear, which appeared in the Daily Mail and OK! Or perhaps the naked poolside shots of Radio 1 DJ Sara Cox on honeymoon. Or, most notoriously, the photographs of 'Allo, 'Allo actor Gordon Kaye languishing in his hospital bed, more than a decade ago. Each time the core argument comes with a new twist. A current favourite is: do people deserve privacy when they have voluntarily offered up so much of their personal space for public gaze? Can Naomi Campbell really complain if a camera snaps her emerging from a Narcotics Anonymous meeting, given that she has been such a relentless self-publicist? (The court said yes.) Can Euan Blair simultaneously object to having details of his university application in the Daily Telegraph and then present himself to the cameras by turning up at a film premiere with Kate Winslet? Do Angus Deayton or Jamie \"brothel-visiting\" Theakston not forfeit some of their privacy by becoming role models, giving the public the right to have a full and true picture of them - in the words of Anthony Scrivener QC, \"warts and all\" ? One study in March found that 80% of Britons believed that people who become stars lose \"some right to privacy.\" But what counts as private anyway? We probably agree that a relationship between a husband and wife should be private, but what about a man and a woman who knew each other for just a night or two? (Think Deayton.) We talk of patient-client confidentiality, but what about the rumpus earlier this year when the government was accused of leaking medical details of 94-year-old Rose Addis, during a partisan row over her treatment? Whichever side you take on any one of these disputes, it's hard not to reach a common conclusion: the boundaries of the private sphere are shrinking. Some may protest at each new intrusion, others will defend each on its specific merits, but the overall trend is clear. Places that were once considered off-limits and secret are now open to view. And that goes beyond the private lives of public figures. Each one of us, however retiring and \"private\" we might be personally, is the victim of constant incursions into the realm we once considered our own. We are surrounded by unseen men with long lenses: the press if we're famous, but also big business and big government - and all of them using state-of-the-art technology, including the electronic gadgets we have come to rely on. We, meanwhile, are left desperately shielding what privacy we still have, like a person frantically reaching for a towel after a stranger has walked in the bathroom. Or is that a bit too easy? It's certainly comforting to see ourselves as the victims of this scary, external threat - but it might not be the whole picture. For if we think hard about privacy, and ask what has really made it as endangered a species in modern Britain as courtly romance or stiff formality, the answer does not lie only in the realm of surveillance and monitoring. It's also about a cultural change, in which modesty, reserve and discretion - those sentries of privacy - have come to seem like values which are quaint or even vaguely repressed. So now the fundamentals of what used to constitute privacy are in retreat. Take the most basic idea, those bits of ourselves we used to call \"private parts\" (and how old-fashioned that very phrase sounds today). Now even the most intimate flesh is on constant and public display: magazine covers of Cameron Diaz with her hand in her underwear; FHM and Loaded busting out, not only on the lower shelves of the newsagent, but also on billboards and bus-stop adverts. Note the high street fashion which demands exposed midriff and visibly protruding nipples as a matter of routine. Listen to the song lyrics, beamed out in the most public spaces, detailing acts that would once have remained behind locked doors. Click one cycle through multi-channel TV and you will glimpse sights that would once have remained private in every realm bar pornography. Now they are part of our visual landscape. And we are exposing more than just flesh to each other. Jade's Big Brother flash was only a finale to the emotional striptease she and her fellow inmates had been performing for weeks on end - each one sobbing and confessing to each other and us, every night. They do the same on countless TV shows, from Jerry Springer to Kilroy. Nor is this some trashy phenomenon, confined to the underclass and alien to everyone else. Whether it's a woman describing an abortion at 9am on the Nicky Campbell phone-in or a writer telling all about his childhood to Anthony Clare on Radio 4, everyone is laying themselves bare. A staple of high-end literature is still the confessional memoir, in which family tales which would once have remained family secrets are offered up for public consumption: one publishing player tartly refers to the genre as \"abuse lit\". Commercial success has come for personal testimonies charting incest, terminal illness and death - the more real and \"searingly honest\" the better. Much of this has come about for the healthiest of reasons. In the 1960s and after, people were obviously desperate to shake off the Victorian prudishness of old which made modesty into repression. In all aspects of our lives, we yearned for a new spirit of openness. In politics, for example, voters have grown tired of the cover-ups and deceit and are crying out for \"full disclosure\". These days we want candidates who seem like us, and that means stripping away the public veneer to see the \"real\" person underneath. All of these different demands, taken together, have militated against keeping things locked away and in private. But there are some less wholesome pressures too. \"We don't recognise ourselves until we are seen by others,\" says psychotherapist Susie Orbach. In the past, those \"others\" were our family or local community. But today families have often broken down or geographic communities vanished. \"So now we have to get a sense of self through purchasing and, crucially, display.\" We do it feverishly, manically, whether through reality TV or via a webcam, but we crave the recognition we used to get from those immediately around us. Orbach has asked her own daughter what she wants to be when she grows up and is unsettled by the reply: \"Famous.\" What's more, the private has become the only game in town. After Thatcher, says Orbach, collective, public life was eviscerated. We still hanker for it - witness the Jubilee street parties or the rallying together for the World Cup - but those moments of shared engagement are rare. What we are left with, the only thing we regard as authentic, is the personal and private. And if that is our only currency, then we cannot horde it away and keep it to ourselves, can we? The menace is out there, no doubt about it. There are cameras and gizmos listening and watching and collating data on our intimate selves every minute, even as we sleep. Even so, the threat to our inner space is not only outside us; it's within, too. Big Brother is watching us, to be sure. But we are also inviting him to take a look. \u00b7 Jonathan Freedland is the policy editor of The Guardian.",
  "title": "Open secret",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "We complain at our loss of privacy but at the same time embrace a very public confessional culture. Jonathan Freedland asks whether we may be inadvertently encouraging the Big Brother encroachment on our inner space.",
  "id": "uk/2002/sep/07/privacy.jonathanfreedland",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}