{
  "content": "As part of our coverage of India's general election, we asked our readers and social media followers in India to recommend the people that they look to online for an alternative take on news, politics and events in the country. So far we have heard from Politicalbaaba, The Frustrated Indian, the East India Comedy company and now the political novelist and blogger Krishan Partap Singh, who tweets as @raisinaseries. The 37-year-old who lives in New Delhi reluctantly joined Twitter to please his publisher during the release of his last novel. \"But my initial reluctance soon gave way to genuine enthusiasm for this exciting new world where the gladiatorial aspects of politics, of which I write about in my books, were being played out with such ferocity every minute of the day,\" he says. We asked him to tell us more about his views on the election and what social media can bring to India's politics. What is the most important issue for you in the election and why? Earlier this year I joined the Aam Aadmi party (AAP), India's newest national party attempting to carve out a third way, for the simple reason that I believe corruption has seeped into the marrow of the country's body politic and is now affecting every sphere of life from everyday low-level tasks all the way to crony capitalism at the highest levels of government. Something has to be done to fight back against this scourge. It is time to challenge the status quo. Does it make a difference to you how active politicians are online? In this election the net savviness of a candidate is making a major difference, particularly in the 100 or so urban parliamentary seats. Most parties are fully leveraging their online presence to get their message out and also for campaign damage control. Candidates are finding that the quickest way to confirm, clarify, or contradict is via social media and they are flocking to it in this election. How would you like to see the parties using social media? I believe parties are extending their online presence by leaps and bounds. But there is a limit to their outreach because of the digital divide in the country that separates voters into digital haves and have-nots. Even after the telecom boom of the last decade there are still hundreds of millions of voters, mostly rural, who are disconnected from the electoral battle on social media. Hopefully with time and progress the divide will narrow and we will be able to have a truly representative political debate online. I hope that day comes as soon as possible because social media has awakened the participatory zeal of many, many Indian voters. This is nothing but good news for Indian democracy. Who are the online voices in India that help provide an alternative perspective on the election? Let us know in the comments and share your views of the 2014 election by using the GuardianWitness contribute button.",
  "title": "Social India: 'The digital divide separates the country'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/indian-elections-2014",
    "world/india",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Readers nominate the online voices providing an alternative view on India and the general election. Next it's Krishan Partap Singh or @raisinaseries",
  "id": "world/2014/apr/10/india-digital-divide-politics-krishan-partap-singh-raisinaseries",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}