{
  "content": "LinkedIn, the social networking website for professionals, is aiming to make itself essential to business by rolling out a mobile service today. The site now claims 19 million users globally, typically business people who are heavy users of smartphones including the BlackBerry and iPhone. LinkedIn's new service at m.linkedin.com will allow users to access the core features of the service through the site, searching for contacts and CVs, inviting new contacts and receiving updates about people in the network. Social networking sites are exploring ways of expanding their audiences further and are increasingly rolling out multilanguage versions, new features and mobile-friendly services. Kevin Eyres, the European managing director for LinkedIn, said a mobile service had repeatedly been requested by users. \"People have really been asking for this. A lot of our users are regularly out at meetings and conferences and this allows a great extension of the service we offer. It means they can take their network with them,\" he added. LinkedIn has been testing the mobile service for six weeks and rolls the first, trial version out today in English, French, German, Chinese and Japanese. Facebook, Piczo and Bebo have already moved into mobile, with take-up boosted by flat-rate data tariffs that make web-based services more affordable for users. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Professionals' networking site LinkedIn launches mobile service",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/linkedin"
  ],
  "lead": "LinkedIn, the social networking website for professionals, is aiming to make itself a business essential by rolling out a mobile service today. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "technology/2008/feb/25/socialnetworking.digitalmedia",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}