{
  "content": "Today's extract from the book After Leveson* is the second edited part of a chapter written by Professor Julian Petley of Brunel university in which he takes issue with the views of Professor Tim Luckhurst of Kent university. Luckhurst wrote a pamphlet Responsibility without power: Lord Justice Leveson's constitutional dilemma in which he suggested that the market is the best guarantor of free speech, and that the state is its main enemy. Petley, having questioned that belief, then turns to the argument about the nature of the BBC's journalistic freedom, or otherwise. Commentators have argued that broadcast journalism is rather more politically independent and trustworthy than is much newspaper journalism. This, they claim, is not despite the regulations governing broadcasting but largely due to them, and in particular to those requiring it to be balanced and impartial. However, Luckhurst claims that, from the 1926 general strike onwards, the BBC's independence from the state has been, at least at times of national crisis, rather more apparent than real, and that during the strike, Reith defined impartiality \"in a manner calculated to avoid offending the state\". Ever since this defining moment in the BBC's relationship with the state, Luckhurst notes, the BBC's relationships with governments of all parties \"remain delicate\" and that the BBC \"is perpetually anxious to secure renewal of its charter and to obtain a generous licence fee settlement\". Luckhurst is quite correct, although the answer to this problem lies in the BBC interpreting its impartiality obligations differently rather than abandoning them. But what he does not mention is that every time the BBC has come into conflict with government \u2013 examples: the Falklands War (1982), Real Lives: Edge of the Union (1985), the 1986 bombing of Libya, Secret Society (1987), the run-up to the Iraq War in 2003 and the Hutton Report in 2004 \u2013 significant sections of the press, and especially the Murdoch press, have loudly and unhesitatingly taken the government's side. Whether it stems from ideological enmity or commercial rivalry, or both, the spectacle of press journalists backing government bullying of their colleagues in broadcasting is a bizarre and distasteful one, and it is one that must cast serious doubt on the sincerity of most newspapers' recent crusades on behalf of freedom of expression. How popular newspapers set the broadcasting agenda Had those newspapers not vociferously supported successive governments' desire to decimate the BBC, its journalistic workforce might not have been so savagely slashed, and this might in turn have avoided the Newsnight/Savile saga (which, of course, gave the BBC's newspaper enemies yet more ammunition with which to attack it). Luckhurst also discusses a different aspect of the relationship between newspaper and broadcast journalism, focusing on the impact on broadcast news of the way in which \"popular newspapers invariably set the agenda with regard to human-interest stories about celebrities and people who are in the public eye\". Recalling his time working on Radio 4's Today programme, he writes: \"It was made plain to me that the Daily Mail was the most popular title among our listeners. I knew that for excellent coverage of topics including crime, popular culture and sport I had to read successful, popular newspapers. Mass-market journalism also helped me to understand the political priorities that motivate a majority of my fellow citizens.\" This is highly questionable. First of all, much crime coverage in popular newspapers is so heavily infected by editorialising that it is entirely unreliable as a record of anything other than of those papers' profoundly illiberal complexions. Meanwhile, much of their coverage of popular culture is fatally compromised, as journalism, by its origins in the wholly commercial imperatives that caused it to be manufactured as \"news\" in the first place. Second, it's highly questionable that what appears in the popular press does actually represent the \"political priorities\" of the majority of UK citizens. Public opinion on any topic is notoriously difficult to measure, and newspapers are particularly prone to running the findings of largely spurious polls that merely \"prove\" the point for which they were designed in the first place. However, the annual British Social Attitudes survey is one of the most reliable barometers of opinion, and this repeatedly shows that, in spite of the impression given by most of the press, public opinion remains predominantly and, perhaps surprisingly, liberal on most subjects. Surveying public attitudes to privacy The same is true of public attitudes to privacy. This is particularly important in the present context, since newspapers repeatedly argue that in running privacy-busting stories they're simply \"giving the public what it wants\". For example, in a survey carried out in 2002, although 61% of respondents agreed that celebrities have to accept some degree of intrusion into their personal lives, and 63% felt the same about people in important positions, 27% agreed strongly and 39% agreed that \"the media should always respect people's privacy.\" And according to an Ipsos MORI poll conducted in 2009 - before the phone hacking revelations came fully to light - 70% of the public believe that there are \"far too many instances of people's privacy being invaded by newspaper journalists.\" Even more specific were responses to a poll conducted for the British Journalism Review by YouGov in 2012. This showed very low levels of support for publishing stories that invade people's privacy for no discernible public interest reason. To be fair, Luckhurst himself does not actually suggest that the public supports newspapers for invading people's privacy for no good reason (other than a commercial one). However, he does argue that, \"by taking the long view\", his pamphlet \"shows that state involvement in the regulation of journalism does not engender public trust\". But the statistics again suggest otherwise. Thus a poll conducted by YouGov in October 2012 showed that 78% of those questioned favoured an independent body, established by law, to regulate the press. In another YouGov survey carried out for The Sun in November 2012, 63% of respondents said that they would not trust newspapers to establish a fair system of press regulation (although, entirely unsurprisingly, this was not reported by the paper itself). How Britain exercises its checks and balances One of the reasons why Luckhurst is so opposed to any form of statutory involvement in the regulation of the press is that in the UK, the executive and legislature are not legally separate, which gives a British government a level of executive power that is absent from other democratic traditions. To balance that power this country has evolved a system in which the electoral checks and balances are exercised in the public interest by the courts and the press. Statutory regulation [sic] of British newspapers would create a constitutional absurdity: parliamentary scrutiny of a body the electorate depends on to scrutinise parliament. He is, of course, entirely correct about the power of the executive. But which institution is most in favour of retaining our archaic and over-centralised system of government? Which is the most vociferous defender of 'parliamentary sovereignty' (for which read the sovereignty of the executive) against the British courts, particularly in cases involving human rights? In other words, which is the most bitter enemy of the separation of powers that is the hallmark of any mature, modern democracy? Step forward the vast majority of the British press. *After Leveson? The future for British journalism, edited by John Mair, is published by Abramis. Available at a special Media Guardian price of \u00a315 from richard@arimapublishing.co.uk Tomorrow: Former national newspaper editor, Guardian deputy editor and one-time hackademic, Peter Cole, explains why he is firmly against statutory underpinning",
  "title": "After Leveson: newspapers turn on the BBC when it asserts its freedom",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/leveson-report",
    "media/bbc",
    "media/rupert-murdoch",
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/newsnight",
    "uk-news/jimmy-savile",
    "media/radio4",
    "politics/polls",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade presents another extract from the book After Leveson in which Professor Julian Petley takes issue with Professor Tim Luckhurst",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2013/feb/25/leveson-report-bbc",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}