{
  "content": "Shocking newspaper pictures of Marc-Vivien Foe, the former Manchester City footballer who died of a heart attack on a French football pitch last week, have prompted a near-record 400 complaints to the UK's press watchdog. Most of the complainants lambasted the Sun and the Daily Mirror for running graphic pictures of the dying man on their front pages. Other newspapers that used pictures of Foe on their inside pages also came in for criticism. A spokesman for the press complaints commission said the level of complaints was \"extremely high\" and Foe's death could become the most complained about item in the history of the PCC. The last newspaper incident to provoked such a popular outcry was in 1996, when when the Mirror's incendiary Euro '96 \"Achtung Surrender\" headline provoked about 330 complaints. The PCC believes the increasing popularity of email has made it easier for members of the public to contact the watchdog, a factor that could have contributed to the high number of complaints in this instance. The press regulator is unable to investigate third party complaints. However, in the spirit of proactivity fostered by a recent parliamentary inquiry into its effectiveness, the PCC has attempted to contact Foe's family via his agent to make sure they know the procedures for making a complaint. If the family were to decide to make a complaint, it would probably be brought under clause five of the PCC's code of practice, which prohibits intrusion into grief or shock. The code demands \"sympathy and discretion\" in such situations and stipulates publication should be handled \"sensitively\". In the Sun's front page picture, Foe lay prostrate on the pitch, the whites of his eyes clearly visible, while the Mirror showed him being carried off the pitch on a stretcher with his arms dangling limply. The Daily Express and Daily Star both ran a picture of Foe on a stretcher on their back pages and the Daily Telegraph used a similar shot on the front of its sports section. However, the PCC spokesman said the front page pictures caused the most offence. Foe, 28, who played on loan to Manchester City last season, died in front of thousands of fans and millions of TV viewers, after collapsing during a Confederation Cup semi-final between his home team, Cameroon, and Colombia. The match, which took place in Lyons, France, was broadcast live in the UK on Eurosport. The temperature in the stadium was nearly 90F. Giving evidence to the select committee inquiry into privacy and media intrusion earlier this year, the PCC's new chairman Sir Christopher Meyer said the number of complaints made to the watchdog was likely to reach record levels this year. However, he added the rise in complaints was more likely due to the regulator's increased profile than a decline in newspaper standards.",
  "title": "PCC deluged with Foe complaints",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "football/football",
    "media/media",
    "media/pcc",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": " Shocking newspaper pictures of footballer Marc-Vivien Foe, who died of a heart attack on a French pitch last week, have prompted 400 complaints to the UK's press watchdog. By Ciar Byrne",
  "id": "media/2003/jul/03/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}