{
  "content": "For a wide-eyed, wannabe writer, being cast into the Cif lions' den induced fear and pride in equal measure. The chance to contribute to such a paradigm-shifting project was one any budding journalist would jump at, but at the same time there was no hiding from the army of commenters ready to tear each and every article to shreds in the threads below. And since I was writing about the most incendiary topic under the Cif sun, the venom and vitriol would start flying from the minute the publish button was pressed on each of my pieces. Despite alarmingly inauspicious beginnings \u2013 ending my debut BTL comment with a sneering \"Whatever mate \u2013 I write, you read \u2026\" \u2013 it soon became apparent that the Cif process was a two-way street. The site's original editor, Georgina Henry, encouraged me to participate in the threads from day one, telling me firmly but kindly that venturing below the line was \"more than good form \u2013 they expect it\". To her and her burgeoning ranks of readers and commenters, writers' jobs had only just begun when their pieces were put up on the site; the real work took place in the lengthy and vociferous threads that followed. No sooner had I started joining in the debate I found \u2013 like so many others \u2013 that I just couldn't stop. The addictive nature of the Cif beast meant I always wanted to respond, forever craved the last word, couldn't help adding just one last comment before logging out and quickly realised the brilliance behind the vehicle that Georgina had created. The main effect on me was the realisation that my values and principles weren't as set in stone as I'd initially believed. By definition, all comment writers are polemical and opinionated, and believe that the sermons they preach should be taken as gospel by all within earshot, with scant room for dissent. And yet, the longer I spent reading the comments on the threads, the more I came to doubt my own positions on the subjects I was covering. Whether writing about Israel/Palestine in my role as demobbed IDF soldier, the credit crisis through my prism as a former City broker, or drug and addiction issues from my perspective as a former class-A addict, I was constantly forced to re-evaluate my views based on the debate that I was participating in on the threads. And the change that came over me was marked. Not that my volte-faces were performed particularly swiftly \u2013 changing one's deep-seated opinions is as cumbersome a process as turning a ship around \u2013 but they were performed all the same, largely thanks to the fellow commenters I encountered on a daily basis. A few I grew to hate (and the feeling was more than mutual), but many more I grew to love, as well as to talk to in private, and even meet up with when our paths crossed around the world. One of the highlights of my Cif experience was exchanging countless emails with the late, great Leonard Stehn (the man behind the LennyStone avatar), who I was lucky enough to host at a family Passover meal a few months before he died. He had come to embody Cif to a whole host of commenters and writers, and was just the type of person Georgina always hoped would make her site a place of deep, passionate, and ultimately positive debate. Thanks to the democratisation brought about by Cif, my pieces were often created and fashioned by BTL suggestions. I would travel to anti-wall protests in the West Bank or spend a day covering rocket attacks in Sderot at the behest of readers keen to exert their influence over the debate. Georgina and her team were full of encouragement for such interactive, reader-led coverage, and for my part I ended up in places I'd never have dreamed of, thanks to the network of contacts and ideas passed my way in BTL exchanges. At Georgina's recent memorial, a series of salutatory BTL comments were read aloud to the packed chapel in one of the most fitting tributes to Cif's founder that she could have wished for. The outpouring of emotion, love, and respect for her from every echelon of Cif and beyond rammed home to all of us involved in the project just how special she was, and how special the site remains. Being part of the project from its earliest days had a profound impact on me, as well as my fellow writer friends who also were exposed to the cauldron-like heat of the threads every time they put pen to paper. Being part of the site's evolution from crude prototype to the slick version running today was a great learning curve, but the essence of Cif has always remained the same. To inform, challenge, provoke and stimulate, and to bring people together to debate rather than force them apart into lonely pockets of resistance. And in such conditions, people really can and do change their minds, sacred cows get slaughtered, and opinions get refined, reconsidered and often totally overhauled. That this is still as true of Cif today as it was when it began would be of immense comfort and pride to Georgina. The same should be true for all who use it above, below or beyond the line. This article was commissioned after a suggestion from Klytie.",
  "title": "The Cif community challenges its writers \u2013 and can change their minds | Seth Freedman",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/georgina-henry"
  ],
  "lead": "Seth Freedman: You told us: Georgina Henry's kind but firm encouragement to go below the line on my pieces has transformed my life as well as my ideals",
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/mar/15/cif-community-challenges-writers-georgina-henry",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}