{
  "content": "In the wake of Andy Coulson's resignation following a court scandal, the appointment of former Sunday Mirror editor Colin Myler might seem ironic. The Sunday Mirror was fined \u00a375,000 in 2001 and Myler resigned after the newspaper caused the collapse of the trial of Leeds footballers Lee Bowyer and Jonathan Woodgate by publishing an interview that was in contempt of court. An interview with the father of the alleged victim while the jury was considering its verdict forced the judge to abort the costly trial. After such disgrace it has taken the journalist, who started out at a Southport news agency and arrived at Fleet Street aged 22, six years to return to the summit of British tabloid journalism. Once in Fleet Street, Myler began as a reporter on the Sun before moving to the Daily Mail. He was eventually made news editor on the Sunday People, but switched to the Today newspaper when it launched in 1985. Myler made his mark as news editor of Today, when he removed desks from the office to increase productivity. He had two stints editing the Sunday Mirror, and both were marked by controversy. Months after he first arrived at the Sunday paper in 1992, he was at the centre of a huge privacy storm after the paper printed pictures of Princess Diana working out at an exclusive gym. In 1994, Myler was promoted to editor of the Daily Mirror, but lasted a year before Piers Morgan was appointed. Myler then left journalism, but by 1998 he returned to the Sunday Mirror to take the helm for a second time, before the Leeds trial scandal. Myler left Britain and found employment at the New York Post, rising to the ranks of executive editor of the Rupert Murdoch owned New York Post. His sudden elevation to the top job at the News of the World has surprised everyone, and probably even himself. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Profile: Colin Myler",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/colin-myler"
  ],
  "lead": "7.45pm: After Andy Coulson's resignation following a court scandal, the appointment of Colin Myler might seem ironic. By Stephen Brook",
  "id": "media/2007/jan/26/privacy.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}