{
  "content": "The World Cup will be unavoidable over the next month, even if you loathe football and everything that's wrong with the game. The tournament will be everywhere, from the high street, to the pub, to your gran's living room. Cyber criminals are very happy about the febrile atmosphere around the beautiful game right now. For them, the World Cup is a perfect storm of scamming opportunities. That means trouble for internet users and businesses relying on the tournament for revenues, and should be a warning to be careful who you trust when it comes to football-related online activity. Or, as Rahul Kashyup, head of security research at security firm Bromium, puts it: \"Make 'paranoid' your default setting when you go online during this World Cup.\" Phishing emails and scam sites The most prevalent threat this World Cup comes in the form of phishing attacks. These see messages sent over email and social networks promising all kinds of attractive content, from tickets and merchandise to footage of highlights or footballers behaving badly. Clicking on the links in these messages may put you at risk of infection or identity theft. \"Victims are redirected to websites that trick them into revealing personal information or downloading and installing malicious software,\" says Tom Cross, director of security research at Lancope. A common scam will present the user with a \"necessary\" software update that is supposedly required in order to play the video, notes Michael Sutton, VP of security research at Zscaler. Yet that update is just malware in disguise. These kinds of attack are common and they work. GFI, a security company, claims that between 70 and 100 new phishing malware websites appear every day related to the World Cup. In one case tracked by anti-virus firm Trend Micro, it uncovered a hoard of stolen credentials sold online by one of the cybercriminals using such phishing. \"We believe that this particular cybercriminal has approximately 5,000 credit cards available to sell at any given time,\" Trend researchers explained in a blog post. The best advice is to use simple common sense. \"As always, it pays to exercise street smarts when you use the Internet. If you get an unsolicited email with a suspicious attachment, don't open it. Don't enter personal information into websites if you're unsure of who operates them. And if an offer seems too good to be true, it probably is,\" says Cross. Sutton adds: \"The best way for users to protect themselves is to apply some common sense to their browsing habits \u2013 just as we avoid walking down a seedy alley, we should avoid suspicious links and websites. \"Users should be wary of downloading any unsolicited content or providing financial information to sites not officially affiliated with the FIFA World Cup. Looking for live coverage? Stick with one of the official broadcast partners of the FIFA World Cup for the country that you're in.\" Exploiting Cristiano Ronaldo love One subtle twist on this kind of phishing is to create sites that users will likely search for. Instead of sending people links, criminal hackers can rely on people to flock to their site in search of World Cup content. Intel-owned security company McAfee recently claimed that for this year's competition, Portugal's Cristiano Ronaldo is the world's riskiest footballer to search for online. Crooks have created reams of websites claiming to offer screensaver downloads and videos around the Real Madrid star, but inside lurk threats. Searching for the latest Ronaldo content brings a more than 3.76% chance of landing on a website that presents some kind of danger, whether that's malware or aggressive adverts that access more data from your computer than they should, McAfee said. For Lionel Messi, that drops to 3.72%, followed by Iker Casillas on 3.34%. There were no England players in the top 10, which tells you something about how cybercriminals see the team's chances of success at this World Cup. \"Maximising on Ronaldo's popularity, cybercriminals have laid a number of malware traps for fans who search for the player,\" says Ashish Patel, McAfee's regional director for network security in the UK and Ireland. \"Employees and home PC users should use tools to run a quick check on the legitimacy of the site, and try where possible to stick to official sites for downloads.\" A good anti-virus product should come with a tool that checks website safety. Attacks on World Cup business For companies that are relying on the World Cup for business, now is a time of heightened danger. What if official sites go down so no one can check up on scores? Or merchandise websites stop working, meaning shoppers can't buy kits and sellers miss out on significant revenue opportunities? In the past, hackers have been known to call businesses and hold them to ransom, threatening to knock them offline with denial of service attacks if payment is not received. Retail sites are a regular target for such targets, so anyone selling football gear this summer needs to take heed. Protesters might cause problems for business too. Hacktivist group Anonymous has said it will be targeting World Cup sponsors in protest at the sums of money being splurged on the competition, rather than on poor parts of Brazil. It has already claimed a successful attack on Brazil's Foreign Ministry networks, leaking apparently confidential emails. \"There is no doubt that being able to successfully attack the World Cup network would appeal to a hacker looking for publicity, and there is a risk from people with specific geopolitical agendas,\" says Jane Wainwright, PwC consultant and former head of corporate security for the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. Wainwright, with obvious credentials in dealing with threats facing massive global events, recommends businesses take a collaborative approach to dealing with online targeting of their systems. \"Organisations should be working together to identify whether the World Cup is being targeted, as they will have intelligence that they can share to help collectively defend the event. They also need to test their own organisation's resilience to an attack or incident,\" she adds. \"The media is a useful channel for organisations to communicate to the public about the potential risks, and what to look out for in relation to rogue websites when buying merchandise or tickets online, or sharing their information on World Cup websites.'' Intelligence-based systems, which should pick up on any strange activity on the network, will help uncover nasties on the network too, adds Patel. \"The sophisticated nature of advanced evasion techniques means companies could be unaware their networks are compromised, so it is important that businesses take serious measures to identify threats and remove them as soon as possible.\" Dodgy World Cup Wi-Fi For anyone lucky enough to actually be at the World Cup in Brazil, there are many digital threats to watch out for. One likely avenue for attack will be via public Wi-Fi points either controlled by attackers, or monitored by them. When users get online via these Wi-Fi networks, their traffic can be intercepted. If it's not properly protected, with things like encryption, attackers can pick up useful data, such as usernames and passwords. Insecure Wi-Fi hotspots, which don't require proper authentication or provide decent protection around the data passing over the network, are rife in Brazil. Russian security firm Kaspersky recently went to Sao Paulo, where many games will be held, in the middle of May 2014. It found more than 5,000 different access points in the city and \"some of them are clearly not secured at all\", with 26% completely open and without encryption. These kinds of Wi-Fi points should be avoided. The same researchers warned about fake charging points. These will charge your battery over USB, but will also silently steal data from your smartphone and in some cases will upload viruses. Again, the advice is to only use points you're fairly sure you can trust. \"Anyone attending connecting a device to a public Wi-Fi hot spot, even at a trusted brand outlet, should be wary of the fact they could be opening the doors to a hacker and avoid accessing sensitive personal and work websites,\" says James Nunn-Price, UK cyber security lead at Deloitte. Credit card skimming Kaspersky has also warned about the potential for credit card cloning and point of sale attacks, where people's card data can be pilfered and used to steal funds. This can be done via skimmer devices attached to ATMs, whilst others have installed entirely fake cash machines. The best protection here is simply to keep your wits about you, says Kaspersky. \"keen eye - if you see something that doesn't look right, notify the bank or owner of the machine, and go somewhere else to withdraw your cash.\" Hackers have found ways to get malware on to PIN pads, where the information is gleaned and sent to the criminals' computers. \"There is not much you can do to avoid falling victim to this, so please keep a close eye on your credit card statement to check all transactions and inform your bank immediately if you see something suspicious. Wherever possible try to pay using a wireless point of sale device \u2013 they're a bit more secure than the older ones connected to serial or USB ports,\" Kaspersky recommended. Whether you're wrapped up in the World Cup hysteria or not, taking any of this advice on board will help you avoid digital attacks, whatever their form.",
  "title": "Don't be a World Cup loser online: give football cyber-scammers the boot",
  "lead": "Watch out for football-themed cybercrime, from phishing emails to malware-toting Cristian Ronaldo websites. By Tom Brewster",
  "tags": [
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/malware",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/viruses",
    "football/world-cup-football",
    "football/world-cup-2014",
    "football/football",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/computing",
    "sport/sport",
    "technology/technology",
    "football/ronaldo",
    "football/lionel-messi",
    "technology/wifi",
    "technology/spam",
    "technology/email",
    "world/brazil"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2014/jun/12/world-cup-football-cybercrime-phishing-cristiano-ronaldo",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}