{
  "content": "To the members of the world's largest online fetishist community, Fifty Shades of Grey is a disaster. It doesn't just misrepresent their community, it also courts unwanted attention. EL James' erotic trilogy has helped its readers become more comfortable exploring alternative sexual interests. Now many are heading to online bondage and sadomasochism (BDSM) communities like FetLife, Collarspace, and ALT to learn more. This raises the terrifying prospect of stumbling across someone you know. We join online communities where existing members will accept and embrace us \u2013 often for passions and interests we wouldn't admit to our Facebook friends. We enjoy the validation we get from finding others like us. To be accepted in the group, we carefully create and maintain idealised identities. In these idealised identities, we highlight personal traits we feel gain us acceptance from the group. But our idealised identities in one community might look out of place in another. Sharing pictures of you in a customised Star Trek uniform looks great in a Star Trek community, but might be embarrassing if someone posts those photos on Facebook. For some, discovery could cost them their job. Can a teacher remain in his job if a student is passing details of his kink profile around? How about lawyers, doctors and other professions? If you thought your colleagues stumbling across your drunken Facebook photos was bad, the photos on your FetLife profile are far worse. Since the Fifty Shades of Grey craze began, FetLife has grown from 1.2 million members at the beginning of 2012 to 3.6 million today. This leads us to a second challenge: the existing culture has been overwhelmed by a flood of newcomers. Newcomers could previously be welcomed, integrated and pick up on the written (and unwritten) rules (\"don't act a BDSM role, be a real person\") from existing members. It's harder to do this when there are thousands of newcomers joining every day. They learn from each other, not the established members. Imagine you go to the same pub every week. You know the regulars and they know you. Then Time Out publishes a terrific review of the pub and it's overrun. You recognise fewer people, they don't know you and it's much busier. A core component of a strong sense of community is the feeling of influence. Members only participate in an online community if they feel they can influence it. Once a community reaches a certain size, members lose that ability. This creates the drive to join a smaller group, where you can exhibit greater influence. Another problem is blurred boundaries. For an online community to succeed, it needs to carefully maintain a strong boundary between insiders and outsiders. This is usually the shared experiences or attributes of the audience. Once the boundary begins to blur, as happens when a flood of newcomers arrives, the sense of community dissipates. If everyone's a member, membership becomes meaningless. As a result, veterans of BDSM sites are leaving to create their own private communities, using WhatsApp groups and protected Twitter accounts. Each new member can be carefully screened and removed if he or she violates the accepted norms. Private groups also allow for greater levels of sharing and self-disclosure \u2013 a key tenet of a successful community. Emily Otway, 32, has been a member of online BDSM communities for over a decade. \"I used to be a really active member of a few BDSM online communities. These days, I'm not so active. I mostly speak to friends I've known for years in the scene on WhatsApp, Telegram and Twitter,\" she says. \"I created a WhatsApp group two years ago for 12 friends. But it became too busy and active. Now I've created a new one for just 10 people. We use it to discuss outfits, meeting up, and have discussions which we wouldn't want to share with hundreds of others.\" Fifty Shades of Grey isn't the first blockbuster to bring a spotlight to a niche corner of the web. The 2009 reboot of the Star Trek franchise attracted a younger, female, audience to online sci-fi communities. Many discovered they weren't initially welcome among the veteran male audience. Luckily the flood of newcomers lasts only so long as the hype. If the members are properly integrated, a blockbuster film can act as a long-term boost to a community. If they're not, both the veterans and the newcomers can be driven away. Richard Millington is the Founder of FeverBee, an online community consultancy. You can find him on Twitter @RichMillington To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \"Brought to you by\" \u2013 find out more here.",
  "title": "Fifty Shades of Grey poses a threat to online BDSM communities",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Online communities are fragile. Exposure to the Hollywood spotlight means some fetishist sites are growing at an unsustainable pace",
  "id": "media-network/2015/feb/24/fifty-shades-of-grey-threat-bdsm-communities",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}