{
  "content": "Jonathan Rowland, son of the one-time Conservative party treasurer David, has formally launched his latest stock market venture \u2013 Jellybook \u2013 intended to invest in social media companies. Undeterred by the experience of his Jellyworks business a decade ago \u2013 it floated at 5p in late 1999 and soared to more than 100p before being sold for 28.5p six months later \u2013 Rowland intends to raise \u00a33m on the Alternative Investment Market through Jellybook. Rowland, chairman of the Luxembourg-based but Bermuda-registered cash shell, said: \"The rise of social media in the past five years has been a development of global proportions. Yet until now public market investors have had limited opportunities to invest in this fast-growing sector. We believe that Jellybook will provide them with that opportunity in the UK.\" He hopes to find a deal in 18 months, following on from the listings of companies such as Linkedin and Renren, and plans by US company Groupon to sell shares. \"We believe the investment case for Jellybook is clear and is backed by an unprecedented interest in social media, from investors to end users. \"Social media is helping to redefine global business and the way in which people go about their daily lives,\" Rowland said. The Rowland family bank, Banque Havilland, which was created out of the Luxembourg operations of the collapsed Icelandic bank Kaupthing, is underwriting the \u00a33m flotation on Aim. Jellybook will focus on companies involved in \"both digital media and social networking, in particular companies that are offering solutions using existing social media platforms\", and is most likely to target an acquisition in Europe. Rowland, who left school at 16, was 24 when Jellyworks was floated in December 1999. His father had intended to become the Conservative party treasurer but resigned in August 2010 before taking up his post amid criticism of his former status as a tax exile. He had donated \u00a31m to the party the previous year and had to return to UK residency after being based in Guernsey to allow the donation to take place. Rowland senior was nicknamed \"Spotty\" because, like his son, he started his business career at an early age.The younger Rowland launched another stock market company in 2007 \u2013 just the markets collapsed during the credit crunch \u2013 that was intended to invest in telecoms companies. No deals were made and cash was returned to investors. Setting out the case for investing in Jellybook, the company said that the amount of cash spent on social networks and blog sites equated to 22% of all time spent online or one in every four and a half minutes.",
  "title": "Jonathan Rowland launches Jellybook to cash in on social media boom",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/business",
    "media/social-media",
    "business/kaupthing",
    "technology/groupon"
  ],
  "lead": "Son of David Rowland will float his new company Jellybook for small investors in digital media and social networking",
  "id": "business/2011/jun/06/jonathan-rowland-launches-jellybook-social-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}