{
  "content": "This is an email I received this morning from a veteran Fleet Street photographer following yesterday's posting about two newspapers publishing pictures of Vicky Pryce in prison. The pictures in the Daily Telegraph and Daily Mail - which appear in their print issues today - were bylined to a freelancer identified as \"Jules\" who works for an international photographic agency, FameFlynet.uk.com. I am respecting his request for confidentiality and have edited his message in order to ensure he cannot be identified. But I know who he is and I believe his views, based on his knowledge and experience, warrant publication: There is no way the images of Vicky Pryce used this morning, and yesterday on the web, were taken without a photographer standing on HMP East Sutton property. There are two photographic points at the prison. One from the church backing on to the prison grounds and another from the prison car park. Legally, the church is a grey area - no one is sure whether church land is private or not - for the taking of pictures. Recently, when another high-profile resident was at East Sutton, the Daily and Sunday Express decided it was not \"legally\" a good idea to photograph from church land. The second location, the visitor car park, is about 600 metres after a clear sign saying \"Private: HM property.\" I have been to East Sutton several times, so I know what I'm talking about. I have spent 40 years as a snapper working for national titles. The paps seem to be taking over. Once the chasers of after-midnight celeb diners, they are bringing their style of work into mainstream newspapers. Working press photographers used to have standards. Now, anyone with a camera set on automatic seems to get pictures into newspapers. They are published without any searching questions to the photographer and agency as to how, as in the Pryce example, they were obtained. As one old snapper friend lamented to me last week: \"Standards\u2026 standards! Nobody in this business has any bloody standards or class anymore\". So what about the provenance of the Pryce pictures. Were they taken without the photographer having trespassed? I have tried to reach the owner of FameFlynet UK's London-based affiliate, John Churchill, this morning. As I write, he has not replied to my messages. More, hopefully, later.",
  "title": "Photographer questions provenance of Vicky Pryce paparazzi pictures",
  "lead": "Veteran snapper argues that pictures were taken on prison property",
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/news-photography",
    "uk/vicky-pryce",
    "media/dailytelegraph",
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/dailyexpress",
    "media/sundayexpress",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/greenslade/2013/mar/21/news-photography-vicky-pryce",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}