{
  "content": "One of the perennial debates about Wiki\u00adpedia is \"inclusionism\" versus \"deletionism\", which revolves around what topics should be covered. Inclusionists assert \"Wiki is not paper. Wikipedia is not a paper encyclopedia, and thus has few size limits\", while deletionists contend \"Wikipedia is not a junkyard\" and \"Wikipedia is not toilet paper\". One common simplistic argument is as follows: a hard disk with large capacity can be bought for a low price. An average article consumes a tiny amount of disk space. Divide that small number by the overall capacity, multiply by the price, and it appears each article has an utterly trivial cost. So open the floodgates. However, this reasoning is mistaken on several levels. It's a little like estimating the bill for a meal based on the price of a bag of rice, and then wondering why anyone ever goes hungry. Fundamentally, many individual small items can add up to a large result. Then, when calculating costs, it's very misleading to consider in isolation one of the cheapest components of an overall information system \u2013 disk space. Disks are in servers, located in data centres, attached to networks levying bandwidth charges, which are all maintained by relatively skilled humans. So that collection adds up to far more than what is paid for a single home-grade hardware part. Furthermore, every article imposes a less visible maintenance requirement of being defended from spam and vandalism. Structurally, by trading off quality for ease of production, Wikipedia shifts these labour costs on to a cult of unpaid workers. But such burdens still exist, even if they aren't immediately apparent via a budget line for an editing department. Then there are the unexpected effects of scaling up. The full Wikipedia database, including historical revisions and discussions, is now so large that the process to portably export the data for possible public reuse has been overwhelmed. There have been complaints, and an ongoing discussion about re-\u00adengineering it. So, like the Monty Python scene where Mr Creosote gorges on an excessive meal, then consumes just a wafer-thin mint, and explodes, there need to be some limits regarding what's taken on. But basic constraints still leave much room for interpretation. The game of \"wikigroaning\" demonstrates this, by contrasting various highbrow and lowbrow topics, with the latter often receiving far more Wikipedia attention than the former. There is also a deep appeal to a certain mentality to act as a gatekeeper and tell others they can't get into the club \u2013 which sometimes clashes with the desire of another type of mindset to promote a favorite hobby. The point where snobbery, fanatic devotion, and resource restrictions often collide is on popular culture. The real Wikipedia way is in practice to have de facto article owners drawn from the most fervid people with the largest amount of time to spend. This works poorly for scholarly subjects, but is excellent for entertainment material with a legion of fans. These conflicts were illustrated by a strong adverse reaction when Wikipedia's co-founder Jimmy Wales mused that he once favoured having an article about every episode of the TV show The Simpsons, but now would favour deleting them. One administrator, \"the wub\", asked: \"What has changed since your original proclamation to make you reconsider? The cynical side of me says it's the for-profit Wikia you launched which would love said articles and their traffic \u2026 but I hope it's wrong.\" And \"Durova\", who had contributed much featured mat\u00aderial, said: \"Jimbo, so you'd seriously delete articles that the community has decided to feature? ... There are five volunteers who worked very hard for many months to earn a spot [in an honour roll] ... To them your post has got to be a punch in the gut.\". Partially at issue here were the tensions created by Wikia (a venture capital-funded startup also co-founded by Wales) which has no major financial connection to Wikipedia but has been described by Trader Daily magazine as an \"effort to take the success \u2013 and, indeed, the underlying philosophy \u2013 of Wikipedia and commercialise the hell out of it\". Between the relative prestige of Wikipedia, and being digital sharecroppers on an electronic plantation of user-generated advertising revenues, it's no surprise many fans worry about exploitation. In sum, even the most seemingly rarefied intellectual disputes can end up coming down to money. sethf.com/infothought/blog",
  "title": "Read me first: Inclusion or deletion? In the end, it's actually about money",
  "lead": "Seth Finkelstein: One of the perennial debates about Wiki\u00adpedia is 'inclusionism' v 'deletionism', which revolves around what topics should be covered.",
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/wikipedia",
    "technology/computing",
    "technology/data-protection"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2009/mar/05/wikipedia-seth",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}