{
  "content": "Hae Min Lee was a 17-year-old American high school student when she went missing early in 1999. Her body was found within weeks, buried in a park, and Adnan Syed, her ex-boyfriend, was arrested, convicted of murder and sentenced to life plus 30 years. There was no forensic evidence; the trial rested on mobile phone records and the testimony of a classmate, Jay, who swore that he had helped Syed bury Lee. The case was closed until Rabia Chaudry, a family friend, contacted Sarah Koenig, a reporter with This American Life, a US radio show. To Chaudry, it was inconceivable that Adnan, the sweet honours student from a respectable, striving Pakistani-American family could have killed the Korean-American girl he adored, despite the Montague-Capulet disapproval of both their families. Koenig's multiple-part podcast, Serial, in which she has set out to investigate whether Syed was wrongly convicted, has been downloaded more than a million times in two months. Slate has a weekly podcast that reviews the podcast.And I \u2013 who am indifferent to whodunnits, who watched half an episode of The Killing and one and a half of Homeland, who doesn't much care about puzzles and finds crime distressing \u2013 have binged on all eight available hour-long episodes this week. I have, in a few days, become a Serial fanatic, tapping my fingers while I wait for the next episode to drop on Thursday. It's a phenomenon that initially spread by word of mouth. Perhaps this could only have happened in the age of social media. I first read about it on Twitter. Now I am urging my Facebook friends to listen. The fascination of Serial is the case \u2013 as Koenig described it \u2013 as a Rubik's cube. To match all the conflicting elements and \"solve\" the puzzle seems almost impossible \u2013 and not because of cover-ups, conspiracies, police skulduggery, racism or incompetence, but because of the messiness of ordinary life. It is the integrity of Koenig's meticulous dogged research and her dithering open-mindedness about the case, that has made Serial so compelling. The journey seems more interesting than any potential resolution. Syed's hope of proving his innocence rests on contradictory strands of reality that don't make a coherent narrative. He's unable to do what the fiction writer does and make his account tell a story that makes sense of the world. Memory, we learn, is heartbreakingly fallible. Syed, asked by the police six weeks after Lee's disappearance to account for where he was that afternoon, was unable to remember. Others who might have seen him couldn't remember either. Where were you, Koenig asks us, for a particular two hours six weeks ago? I've just checked my diary, there's no entry for that day. I was probably at home, writing, un-alibied. Crime drama suppresses all but the main narrative threads, or plants red herrings to tease audiences. Ultimately, everything can be explained. Criminals arrange alibis that detectives must break. In life, there are multiple versions of events and they are contradictory. Memories are false, people misspeak, they are misunderstood, mistakes are repeated until they are unmoored from the original and turn into concrete evidence for conspiracy nuts. Then we have the matter of character. Koenig has logged more than 30 hours of phone conversations with Syed in prison, which are peppered through the series. She, like many listeners, is torn between believing he is a nice middle-class boy convicted on the say-so of Jay, the troubled drug-dealer, or a charming sociopath. But then we hear about Jay, and he too confounds our expectations, less a kid from the 'hood than a dreaming slacker who adored his own high-achieving girlfriend. As the novelist Richard Ford has observed: \"Character \u2026 is one more lie of history and the dramatic arts \u2026 we only have what we did yesterday, what we do today, and what we might still do.\" Inevitably, in real time, thousands of listeners are on bulletin boards trying to solve the case or claim to have predicted the outcome, though even the producers say they don't yet know what it is. Some are having a hard time understanding that an investigation into whether there has been a miscarriage of justice might lead to no conclusion. When the programme veers off into technical data about cell phone pings, they complain that it's not entertaining. The real lives of the real protagonists are starting to turn into an aural video game for amateur sleuths. Koenig's original investigation has become a more awkward, enthralling, aggravating investigation into the nature of truth. But that's what makes it a cultural phenomenon. Serial packs in a lot: the quest; the suspicion that Koenig might be an unreliable narrator holding back what she knows in a new form of gonzo journalism; a treatise on the US justice system; a portrait of suburban American life; the lives of immigrant communities; and how we become adults with no responsibility to our more reckless teenage selves, apart from those trapped forever in prisons or in the grave. You really can't fault the storytelling.",
  "title": "Hooked on Serial, the whodunnit that has become a cultural phenomenon | Linda Grant",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "tv-and-radio/crime-drama",
    "tv-and-radio/drama",
    "us-news/us-crime",
    "media/pbs",
    "tv-and-radio/us-television",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/podcasting",
    "media/digital-media",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Linda Grant: A US journalist's re-examination of the 1999 murder of Hae Min Lee raises more questions than it could ever answer",
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/nov/14/serial-hae-min-lee-adnan-syed-whodunnit-us-crime-drama",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}