{
  "content": "After months of meticulous planning, a hotly debated X Factor performance and the fastest-selling single of 2009, Cheryl Cole's solo album goes on sale tomorrow. With one of the most finely tuned marketing campaigns of modern times, the 3 Words album is expected to be one of the biggest of the year and is released as Cole celebrates a No 1 in the singles chart with her solo debut Fight for This Love. A glance behind the glitz of the album release, though, reveals an industry in flux, and shows how labels are changing in the face of mass digital piracy and plummeting profits. Peter Loraine, general manager at Fascination Records, the pop label behind the album and part of Universal, put it bluntly. \"There is less money to spend these days and you have to make it go further,\" he said. \"You have to be a lot more creative, with a lot fewer resources.\" High street record stores may have disappeared, but a huge, and growing, range of online retailers needs to be catered for. Cole's label made sure that each one got a special piece of her to offer fans. Amazon got 200 signed albums; Play.com, a meet and greet and a shopping trip offer; HMV.com, personalised calenders; Orange, signed lyrics; and iTunes, an exclusive track, digital booklet and remix bundle. \"We had to make sure we were catering to every fan out there,\" said Loraine. \"Every outlet felt involved and excited about the release \u2013 no one was left out.\" This goes to the heart of the problem facing labels, said James Foley, music editor for industry newsletter Record of the Day. \"Even though Cheryl has a huge mainstream audience, her label are still going at this in a very multi-tiered way. The piecemeal approach shows just how hard the major labels have to work to connect with a fragmented audience.\" The digital revolution and online piracy have dealt a huge blow to the industry \u2013 but may yet prove its saviour. The drop in record sales \u2013 down a further 6% last year \u2013 has coincided with an explosion of new ways to connect with fans. Cole has featured on almost all of them \u2013 MySpace users got a live webchat while Bebo users made videos for a chance to interview the star. On Twitter, fans asked questions which Cole answered in a video on her website and MSN Messenger was given an exclusive video which became the site's most watched and commented on. \"Cheryl really got her hands dirty. Lots of artists may not want to do this grassroots stuff, but she was totally committed to the job in hand,\" said Loraine. Peter Robinson, the founder of Popjustice.com, said the Cole release reflected a trend for \"micro-marketing\". \"Labels are tracking down potential fans and invading their lives,\" he said. \"Previously you would have been made aware of an album through hearing it on the radio and [seeing] billboards \u2013 it was a blanket approach, and you were never really sure who your message was getting through to. But now labels can be pretty sure who they are reaching.\" This forensic knowledge of an audience means that labels are, more than ever, able to produce pop albums they know will please fans. \"Pop music has always been quite cynical, it has always pandered to its audience, but now it can do that more effectively,\" he said. According to BPI figures this week, 98.6% of single sales are now digital. But the album charts remain overwhelmingly dominated by sales of CDs, bought, in the main, by an older audience. In the middle of this month the top-five selling albums in the UK were Barbara Streisand, Madonna, Paramore, Cliff Richard and the Shadows, and Vera Lynn. Has this influenced Cole's album? Possibly, said Foley. \"Cheryl is an artist that you are as likely to hear on Radio 2 as Radio 1, in some ways appealing to such a wide audience means you have to broaden the brush strokes. The album is not groundbreaking in the way that Girls Aloud were with Xenomania, it's not fresh sounding like Lady Gaga, but it ticks a lot of boxes, it's very low risk.\" What 3 Words reveals, according to Robinson, is that labels are still willing to invest time and money on talent \u2013such as Leona Lewis and Alexandra Burke \u2013 when they are confident of seeing a return. \"There is a lot more money riding on a lot less,\" he said. \"Today things are either a massive success or a massive disaster and there seems to be little room for anything in the middle.\" Christmas countdown: Rivals jostle for best exposure Cheryl Cole's 3 Words faces stiff competition in the run-up to Christmas, the most important period of the music calendar. Around 50m albums will be sold in the fourth quarter \u2013 approximately 40% of the total sold this year. Leading ladies in the Christmas bun fight include Lady Gaga, who is adding eight tracks to her first album, The Fame, and re-releasing it on Polydor as The Fame Monster, on 23 November. Rihanna's Rated R on Mercury/Def Jam is out the same day, suggesting that the gunshot heard at the end of her single Russian Roulette happily missed its target. Expect a voice-off between queen diva Mariah Carey, whose 12th album, Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel, is released on Mercury on 16 November, and Dame Shirley Bassey, who releases her first album of new material in more than 20 years on Geffen a week earlier. The X Factor's most lucrative daughter, Leona Lewis, will release her ballad-packed second album, Echo, on Sony on 16 November. Meanwhile, dinner party-goers will welcome the news that Norah Jones's fourth album, The Fall, will be out on Note/Parlophone on 16 November and Jamie Cullum's The Pursuit on Decca on 9 November. Robbie Williams's Reality Killed the Video Star, is set to be released on 9 November.",
  "title": "Cheryl Cole gets her hands dirty for new album as  label woos fans",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "culture/cheryl-cole",
    "music/popandrock",
    "music/music",
    "culture/culture",
    "business/musicindustry",
    "business/business",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/bebo",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/marketingandpr"
  ],
  "lead": "Girls Aloud singer's solo LP part of trend to use internet to reach fractured audience",
  "id": "culture/2009/oct/25/cheryl-cole-new-album-label",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}