{
  "content": "LinkedIn has always been the social media platform that keeps things professional: free of former friends and exes, it's where you take people you want to keep firmly in the colleague zone. It's been a nice way to keep things less fraught in this age of selfies and flirting through favorites on Twitter. The detente between LinkedIn and human romantic need is now over. It turns out that some LinkedIn users are networking with hopes of a more romantic connection. This means that that LinkedIn message asking you to grab coffee can actually mean more than just coffee. The founders of a new app called LinkedUP \u2013 think Tinder for LinkedIn users \u2013 are hoping to bring clarity to the matter by creating a separate means of connecting with those seeking love, instead of a professional connection. Coffee or coffee? If you have ever been confused about the nature of your one-on-one meeting with a potential professional connection, you are not alone. The topic of ambiguous coffee meetings comes up all the time, as Guardian readers and writers attested in February. \"This is actually one reason why I love online dating. No ambiguity! You are on the site to meet in the service of potentially boning, and there's very little confusion on that point,\" Guardian columnist Jill Filipovic told us at the time. That hasn't been true of a site like LinkedIn, however, which wasn't intended for dating. Searching for love on a networking platform This is where LinkedUp comes in. Acting like Tinder for LinkedIn users, it allows users looking for a romantic connection to browse through a database of other users also looking for more than just a professional connection. The users 'like' the profiles of those users they are interested in \u2013 based, presumably, on their resume, connections and assumed earning power - and hope for potential match. There are, however, limitations to finding that perfect someone based on LinkedIn profiles. After all, the site is about looking good to peers and potential employers \u2013 not to lady friends and gentleman callers. \"My LinkedIn photo is not sexy \u2013 it's a headshot, which puts my best professional face forward,\" writes Elana Carlson. According to her, LinkedIn \"never will be, never should be, for e-romance\". To find out why the creators of LinkedUp believe differently, we caught up with Max Fischer, president and CEO of the company. Do you have a partnership with LinkedIn? I want to make this clear and very direct \u2013 we are in no way affiliated with LinkedIn. However, in order to get their data, we have to use their API key, which is something that you are granted access to by LinkedIn. But in no way are we business partners or affiliated with them. Who are your target users? We are interested in people who are interested in using our application to find their type \u2013 and that might be people of any age, of any background or of any demographic. I wouldn't say we are honing in one type; this is an open platform for those interested in using this. Where did you get the idea for LinkedUp? The idea came from realizing that some of my friends, myself included, were able to actually find dates on LinkedIn using their messaging platform. Basically we just thought it was a great idea, so we started working on it after that happened. When you went on the dates that you were able to get, did you go into it thinking of the meetings as dates or as networking opportunities? I think it was a little bit more subtle. As a result, it could've been taken either way, but at the end of the day it turned into a date. Did any of your LinkedIn dates work out and lead to a relationship or are you going to be using the app yourself? [Laughs] I would like to keep my personal life private, if that's OK. I'm a little bit skeptical about this. I thought the great thing about LinkedIn was that it's the one platform where things are strictly professional. Do you think you can change that and make people comfortable using it as another online dating app? What's so great about the app that we developed is that it pulls from the really quality premium user database that [LinkedIn has] set up, which gives people a true sense of identity of the other person on the other end of the mobile app that we have created. The user has sense, in terms of comfort and understanding, of: where is that person from? What do they do? Where did they go to school? Which are some of the most important questions in dating rapport between two people in terms of the first interaction. Usually when you are at a bar, those are some of the most important questions that people ask for. Like, \"Oh yeah, my brother went to that school.\" Or \"I love their football team.\" Or \"My mom studied the same thing you studied in college. She's a scientist also.\" That's how people start conversations and those are ice breakers in terms of gaining comfort between two people. What's great about our application is and what helps keep LinkedIn professional is that you have to opt in to our platform to use it. So only people who want to be a part of our LinkedUp app are using it. On top of [that], the user has the ability to change in your profile whether or not you want to show certain aspects of exactly where you work, you can turn that on and off. The only thing that we make the user show is what industry they work in, their first name and whatever age they choose, which can allow the user to remain pretty anonymous if they really want to be. Or we allow them to show even more if that's what they like. As a result, we create a level of comfort, but also better identity and higher quality matches, because you are able to find someone that's your type. Speaking of quality matches, when people opt in \u2013 do you collect any other information that's not on my profile? Like my interests, preferences, hobbies \u2026 We look at this as being a platform with a great ease of use and as a result we want to make the process as streamlined as possible to help the user create a profile as quickly as possible. We have them select their gender, which doesn't necessarily show up on LinkedIn, or the age that they want to display. The user gets to decide which pictures they put in. They can put things about their personality in their pictures, what they're doing [in them] and things they think are fun. We also have a room for a tagline, which can tell you a little bit more about the person, like what your interests are or something funny and cute. Our hope is to make this process as smooth and easy for the user to go from creating a profile to actually using the application and finding the person they are interested in. The reason I ask about interests is, because \u2013 take me \u2013 I live in New York, I went to the City University and I work in media. I think a lot of people can fit under that description, but can ultimately be very different people with many different interests and personalities. Doesn't this app then allow for a very superficial matching? I don't think so. I think it helps people feel a little more comfortable about people. I was looking through some profiles earlier today and the tag line says \"You must love sports and dogs\" or \"I really love this hockey team.\" I really feel that not only do you get a sense of where someone is from, what they do and where they go to school, which as I mentioned are some important questions for understanding whether they're going to be a good match. Also, because we have that tagline, we can now know that the user on the other end really likes sports or happy hours. It allows you to show more of your personality in that sense. If I were to opt in, how are the potential matches determined? Are they based on the networks the users belong to? In terms of creating your match settings, which is one of the first couple of things you have to do when you are opting into the application, you select who you are interested in in terms of: gender, age, distance. You can search by industry and school, if you chose. But if you want, you can see everyone on the application.",
  "title": "LinkedUp: a dating app for the most professional of networks",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "money/us-personal-finance",
    "lifeandstyle/online-dating",
    "technology/apps",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/linkedin"
  ],
  "lead": "LinkedUp, which functions like the app Tinder, helps separate networking from dating, as single people struggle to discern between them",
  "id": "money/us-money-blog/2014/apr/29/dating-app-linkedin-social-networking-tinder",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}