{
  "content": "The managing director of Hello!'s Spanish parent company today claimed that an error in the written statement of the celebrity magazine's Uruguayan fixer, the Marquesa de Varela, arose because of a \"misunderstanding\". Javier Riera told the high court that he honestly believed the marquesa had acted as an intermediary in selling paparazzi photographs of the wedding of Catherine Zeta Jones and Michael Douglas to Hello!, although this turned out to be untrue. The pictures are at the centre of a \u00a32.2m legal action brought against Hello! by the Douglases and OK! magazine, which held exclusive picture rights to the event. The court heard last week that the marquesa had felt under pressure to sign a faxed witness statement saying that her company had sold the sneak shots to Hello!. Mr Ramey, a Californian paparazzo who masterminded the plots to snatch the pictures, had in fact sold them directly to Hello!. \"The error in the fax was the product of a misunderstanding on the part of each and all of us, as we did not have accurate information as to the manner in which the agreement was finalised and we were only aware that the marquesa had been the intermediary in the matter,\" said Mr Riera in his witness statement to the court. Mr Riera said that the publisher of Hello!, Sally Cartwright, had telephoned him when the Douglases obtained a temporary injunction preventing distribution of the issue of Hello! containing the unauthorised pictures to tell him that Hello!'s London lawyers had asked for a statement from the provider of the feature. \"Mrs Cartwright informed me on the telephone that our lawyers in London had asked for a statement from the provider of the feature who, without a doubt, we all believed to be the Marquesa de Varela. \"In my own case this belief was based on two reasons: first because I knew that the marquesa had been involved and I had no knowledge of the intervention of another person in organising this feature, and second, because Mrs Cartwright informed me that she had been told this in a conversation she had had with Mr Ramey that same day when he told her that he had come to an agreement about this matter with the marquesa. \"I did not think about the fax and indeed there was no reason for me to think about it until recently when in view of the marquesa's defence, I realised that the final price had been agreed by Mr Sanchez Junco directly with Mr Ramey.\" Lawyers representing the Douglases and OK! have claimed that the misleading witness statement was part of a conspiracy by Hello! to distance itself from the sneak pictures. The judge, Mr Justice Lindsay, this morning told Hello!'s Spanish owner, Eduardo Sanchez Junco, that the marquesa's witness statement lay at the very heart of the case. \"One of the questions I shall have to consider at some stage is whether the request of the marquesa to send that letter which is a letter that suggests that she sold the rights to the unauthorised pictures, was made not merely to hide Ramey's name or his involvement, but to put a greater distance between Ramey and Hello! by seeming to indicate a well-known intermediary,\" Mr Justice Lindsay said. When the Judge asked Mr Sanchez what comment he had to make on that subject, he replied; \"That this is a letter which a great part of it is true because it is introducing the well known intermediary, that was a well known fact. \"That character had already been introduced. She had been the only person I had spoken to directly with regard to this matter. And another part of this letter is erroneous.\" Mr Riera also told the court that he and the marquesa are barely on speaking terms. \"I speak very little to the marquesa. For a long time now our relationship started getting very cold and I don't really speak to the marquesa. Normally I speak to her via my secretary. \"The marquesa doesn't really pay attention to me,\" he added, describing the marquesa as a \"disorganised\" and \"independent-spirited\" woman. The case continues.",
  "title": "Hello! boss admits to 'misunderstanding' over wedding pictures",
  "lead": "1.15pm:  The head of Hello!'s Spanish parent company today claimed that an error in the statement of the celebrity title's Uruguayan fixer arose because of a 'misunderstanding', writes Ciar Byrne",
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/feb/18/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}