{
  "content": "It's time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple's App Store. As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app. Want more apps? Browse previous Best iPhone and iPad apps roundups on The Guardian. And if you're looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weekly Best Android Apps roundups. APPS Noisy Neighbours (\u00a32.99) Noisy Neighbours is a children's app from the Tate Gallery and developer Aimer Media, based on Ruth Green's book of the same name. It's a story about animals that encourages kids to draw their own and record their noises \u2013 a recipe for great fun (or: chaos) shared between parents and children. iPhone / iPad Jump \u2013 London Bus Tracker (Free + IAP) Getting the bus around London is great \u2013 as long as you're not trying to pay with cash \u2013 and there are a growing number of apps using open data from the capital's transport network to help you navigate. Jump is one of the slickest: a fast, well-designed way to check nearby bus stops, buses on their way and (if you upgrade for \u00a31.49 in-app) set alerts to make sure you never miss them. iPhone Facebook Messenger (Free) Facebook Messenger has been on iPhone for a long time now \u2013 and recently, the social network has been forcing users to install it by removing messaging from its main iPhone app. Now the Messenger app has launched for iPad too: a clean, stripped-down interface for text-chatting and making voice calls. Although if this means whipping messages out of the main Facebook iPad app, expect more loud complaints. iPad (already on iPhone) Poplings (\u00a32.99 + IAP) This could be in the games section of this roundup, but since it's for preschool children aged 2-4, it's as much a digital playtoy. The concept is interesting too: a game designed around pop music, complete with tunes from the likes of Avicii, Little Mix and Calvin Harris, with new \"story-packs\" sold as in-app purchases hidden behind a parental gate. iPhone / iPad Kimd - Concert camera (Free) This is unlikely to put Prince off his ban on cameraphone photos at gigs, but if the sight of a forest of lit-up screens at concerts bugs you, it should be encouraged. Kimd is a photography app designed for gigs that dims the screen as low as it can when shooting. And yes, it will only make a real difference if everyone at a gig had it, but it's still a cleverly-simple idea. iPhone FuseMe by Acision (Free) Another messaging app hoping for a tilt at WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger and even some other apps not owned by Facebook. This aims to be a jack-of-all-trades, blending Skype-style voice and video calls, text chatting, photo messaging and other features into a single app. iPhone Boj \u2013 Musical Mayhem (\u00a32.49) If you're a parent in the UK of young children, you might already have encountered Boj: a characterful cartoon series airing on CBeebies. This is its second official app \u2013 or rather an \"appbook\" as developer Box of Frogs describes it. Expect games, music, a singalong and voice narration from Jason Donovan. It's very fun. iPad Nunki : Your Social News Viewer (Free) There are lots of apps trying to aggregate news using social networking signals from Flipboard down. Nunki is the latest entrant in a crowded market, promising to gather and sort breaking news, sports results and other stuff, drawing on social networks to ensure it's up-to-the-minute. An intriguing idea, but let's see how well it performs. iPhone Bandsintown Manager (Free) An app for a very specific audience: musicians and managers of musicians, who have accounts with the Bandsintown website for managing and promoting their gigs. This app is a way for those people to keep tabs on their tourdates from their smartphones and tablets, plugging gigs on Facebook and posting status updates from the road. iPhone / iPad Sharknado: Go Shark Yourself! (Free) Will Sharknado 2 jump the, er, shark? The sequel to one of the silliest TV movies of recent times (in a positive way) is set to air at the end of this month, and this time round there's an official app. It's basically a photo-customisation app with various Sharknado filters and stickers to use. Come August, it'll be toast, but this month it's fun. iPhone GAMES Civilization Revolution 2 (\u00a310.49) Along with Championship Manager, the original Civilization hoovered up a significant chunk of my teenage gaming time. This is the empire-building strategy game's latest mobile incarnation, looking much more polished than the first Civ Revolution on iOS, with gameplay that suits pick-up-and-play mobile sessions perfectly. Expensive, but a turn-based treat. iPhone / iPad Haste (Free + IAP) Now for something new: a slightly Boggle-y word game hoping to be a Words With Friends-sized hit in 2014. If there's any justice, it'll have a shot: you swipe along letters to form words, aiming to score as many points as possible in 90-second rounds. You can play live against other players, and see how your skills compare to the world in high-score tables. iPhone Monster Hunter Freedom Unite (\u00a310.49) The Monster Hunter console and handheld games are massive in Japan, but still relatively under-the-radar in the rest of the world. This new iOS version could start the process of changing that, even if \u2013 like Civilization Revolution 2 \u2013 its high (for an app) price may put off casual interest. You're basically, yes, hunting monsters, with co-op multiplayer and a well-worked weapons upgrading system to hold your interest. iPhone / iPad Super Battle Tactics (Free + IAP) This is the latest freemium game from DeNA, a bit like Advance Wars with more tanks. You build your team first from parts, then battle opponents, form virtual clubs with friends, and find sponsors to keep building your rolling army. It looks good at this stage, but let's see how it develops. iPhone / iPad Orbitum (\u00a30.69) There's quite a collection of ambient, relaxing puzzlers on iOS now, with Orbitum the latest to join the crowd. It gets you tapping on orbiting rings to keep your planety blob out of the black hole in the middle. It's a clich\u00e9 to call this kind of game \"hypnotic\", so I'll avoid that, but it's certainly... calming. iPhone / iPad Zombie Puzzle Panic (Free + IAP) Billed as \"a new spin on match 3 with 1000% more zombies and guaranteed no candies\", this is an alternative to Candy Crush Saga, with a similar mix of swapping, power-ups and social bragging with your scores. And, yes, in-app purchases to smooth your progress. iPhone / iPad Disney Tsum Tsum (Free + IAP) This Disney game is going global after its debut on social messaging app Line \u2013 which you'll need to have installed and registered for before you can play. It's a puzzle-matching game with cute characters, big combos and (no surprises here) in-app purchases to help you along. iPhone / iPad A Life Worth Dying For (\u00a31.99) This might not be a massive hit, but it's the most inventive app idea this week: a puzzle game built around video flashbacks chosen from developer Mutlu Isik's own home videos, where you have to trigger new memories by recalling sequences of cues. Isik says his fear of dementia was one inspiration for making it. iPhone / iPad Hungry Henry (Free + IAP) There's a real sense of fun around this 8-bit-style action game, starring as it does a hippo (named Henry) with a taste for humans on inflatables. You have to make sure Henry eats people in the right-coloured outfits as they float towards him, by tilting your device. It's very hard, but has a Flappy Bird-grade just-one-more-go feel about it. iPhone / iPad Cargo King (Free + IAP) Finally, a fun physics-action game involving stacking boxes dangling from above, which if you've ever played a game called Tower Bloxx, is a very smart idea for a mobile game. One-tap controls make it simple to play, if not master. iPhone / iPad Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.",
  "title": "20 best iPhone and iPad apps and games this week",
  "lead": "Noisy Neighbours, Jump, Civilization Revolution 2, Haste, Facebook Messenger, Poplings, Monster Hunter and more. By Stuart Dredge",
  "tags": [
    "technology/iphone",
    "technology/ipad",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/apps",
    "technology/smartphones",
    "technology/tablet-computer",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media",
    "technology/games",
    "artanddesign/tatebritain",
    "technology/facebook",
    "music/calvin-harris",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2014/jul/07/best-iphone-ipad-apps-noisy-neighbours-civilization-revolution-2",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}