{
  "content": "The European Commission has brokered a deal with internet companies to help protect children using social networking sites, it announced today. The agreement \u2013 which covers networks including Facebook, MySpace and YouTube \u2013 will see a number of safeguards put in place to help young people while they are using the web. The proposals include systems for dealing with cyberbullying, altering default privacy settings for children and ensuring that users have the ability to report abuse with a single click. Seventeen websites and networks across Europe have agreed to the proposals, and as part of the deal they have promised that there will be significant progress towards implementing the rules by April. Viviane Reding, the EU commissioner for information society and the media, said that the agreement was an \"important step\" in the process of making social networking safer for children. \"Social networking has enormous potential to flourish in Europe, to help boost our economy and make society more interactive \u2013 as long as children and teenagers have the trust and the right tools to remain safe when making new 'friends' and sharing personal details online,\" she said in a statement. The commission's proposals are similar to the social networking guidance issued by the Home Office in Britain last year. That agreement \u2013 which amounted to a self-regulated code of conduct for social networks operating in the UK \u2013 included requirements for visual privacy prompts, and required sites to make attempts to screen out younger users. The agreement brings a number of small sites into line with their bigger rivals \u2013 signatories also include Bebo, French video website DailyMotion and Habbo Hotel, the popular virtual world for children. But in many cases some of the policies suggested by the commission have already been put in place, as individual websites work through their own issues surrounding privacy and illegal activity. Many continue to crank up their own protection programs \u2013 not just to ensure the safety of individual users, but also because of the potential impact on their reputations. Last week it was revealed that MySpace had identified and removed 90,000 registered sex offenders over the past two years, after a concerted campaign by US prosecutors to tighten up regulation of social networks. At the time Roy Cooper, the attorney general of North Carolina, said that progress was being made but that internet companies needed to do more to keep on top of the issue. \"Technology moves forward quickly, and it's important for these companies to stay ahead of the technology,\" he said. \"They're not moving fast enough for us.\"",
  "title": "EC agrees on deal to help keep children safer online",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/youtube",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/myspace",
    "society/bullying",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "The European Commission has brokered a deal to internet companies to help protect children using social networking sites",
  "id": "technology/2009/feb/09/children-online-safety-agreement",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}