{
  "content": "The supermodel Naomi Campbell yesterday told the high court she felt \"shocked, angry, betrayed and violated\" after the Mirror newspaper revealed details and published a photograph of her attending a Narcotics Anonymous meeting last year. A friend of Ms Campbell, 31, feared it would \"send her over the edge\", while the publicity, on February 1 2001, made her depressed, miserable and insecure, and undermined her confidence. \"For the first time in a long while I doubted myself and my resolve to go on,\" she added. The details of Ms Campbell's reaction to the publication of the article, headlined Naomi: I am a drug addict, emerged as she began her high court action against Mirror Group Newspapers (MGN) for breach of confidence, invasion of privacy, and breach of the Data Protection Act. But yesterday the drama of court 13 centred not on legal arguments, but on the performance of Ms Campbell as the Streatham-born model, clad in a grey Mark Powell trouser suit and dusky pink silk tie, and clutching quartz worry beads, took to the witness box. Watched by the Mirror editor Piers Morgan, less flamboyantly dressed in a petrol blue tie and navy suit, and speaking in husky transatlantic tones, she referred to relationships with the actor Robert De Niro, Renault Formula One boss Flavio Briatore, and Spanish flamenco dancer Joaquin Cortes, choked back tears as she mentioned her dead friend Gianni Versace, and spoke of her desire for babies and of her period pains. \"I am a model but I am not that 24/7. I am also a human being,\" she added. During four hours of cross-examination, she denied ever using her private life to promote commercial ventures - a central charge of the defence, who argue that by being dependent on \"the oxygen of publicity\" she has forfeited her right to privacy - but admitted she had lied in a spate of interviews in which she said she had never taken drugs. \"That was misleading and untrue,\" she conceded of her claim never to have done so in an interview on American TV with Barbara Walters. As the questioning continued, her reputation for tantrums emerged, as she raised her voice at Desmond Browne QC, for MGN, repeatedly interrupted him, and rolled her eyes at her legal team and Bruno Michel, her manager. After several interruptions, Mr Justice Morland - who twice left his seat to help her find her place in her papers - explained: \"Miss Campbell, it is important there's one at a time. Mr Browne asks the question: when he finishes you give your answer, and while you give your answer Mr Browne keeps his mouth shut.\" Earlier, the court heard a statement detailing her reaction to the publication of the photographs, taken with a long lens by a Mirror photographer in a car 45 metres away, as she emerged from the World's End centre, in King's Road, Chelsea. The model, who had been attending daily NA meetings in London for a year - and, she told the court, had also attended them in America, Australia, Italy, France, Spain and Japan - \"exceptionally\" attended three meetings that day, including a women's only group in the evening, also attended by a female Mirror reporter. \"Of course it was distressing to be branded a drug addict, but what I found particularly unpleasant and intrusive was that the Mirror printed details of my treatment and photographs of me outside one of the counselling sessions. I felt shocked, angry, betrayed and violated by the article,\" the statement said. Outlining the legal arguments behind the case, Andrew Caldecott QC, for Ms Campbell, said the Mirror's source had \"quite plainly\" breached a duty of confidence in contacting the newspaper and that the paper knew this. The Mirror's claims that details of her treatment were \"banal and trivial\" did not merit that confidence being broken, and he questioned whether such details were in the public interest. The case had been expected to establish if there is a new law of privacy following the adoption of the Human Rights Act, with its insistence that everyone has \"the right to respect for private and family life\". But, while the act is expected to form part of Ms Campbell's case, her lawyers yesterday indicated that the trial was unlikely to establish a legal precedent. \"The first point of the defence is that Miss Campbell has forfeited all protection because of her statements on her family and relationships and saucy photographs in the Madonna book, and we say to that: so what? How can anodyne disclosures like these waive for ever anonymity for fair treatment for an addiction?\" Mr Caldecott said. But Mr Browne said it was in the public interest that the Mirror publish the story since, by abusing drugs, Ms Campbell was guilty of \"serious criminal behaviour\". She had deceived the public over a number of years by claiming she had never taken illegal drugs, and such problems were obviously related to her behavioural problems. He said: \"For over a decade, Miss Campbell has courted publicity by delivering interviews in which she provides glimpses of her private life, normally her relationship to her current boyfriend, in exchange for an opportunity to promote her latest commercial venture. \"We say - to adopt the language of the PCC [press complaints commission] - that in so doing she is compromising the privacy of her personal life.\" The case continues.",
  "title": "Outside court Naomi Campbell shuns the limelight. Inside, her life is laid bare",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "fashion/models",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy",
    "fashion/naomi-campbell"
  ],
  "lead": "The supermodel Naomi Campbell yesterday told the high court she felt \"shocked, angry, betrayed and violated\" after the Mirror newspaper revealed details and published a photograph of her attending a Narcotics Anonymous meeting last year. By Sarah Hall",
  "id": "media/2002/feb/12/pressandpublishing.privacy1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}