{
  "content": "Prince Charles' private secretary has admitted St James's Palace has failed to provide the press with enough access to Prince William over the past two years, after the relationship between journalists and the palace threatened to break down. Sir Michael Peat has now promised to give the press information about Prince William at least once a term, in an effort to ease the unrest among tabloid papers over the lack of access to the heir to the throne. In a letter to Les Hinton, the chairman of the newspaper editors' code of practice committee, Sir Michael conceded that not enough material about the prince had been made available since October 2001. \"Steps have been taken to address this and I hope that I am right in thinking that the recent interviews and photographs were generally well received,\" he wrote. \"It is our intention to ensure that information about Prince William is, from now on, made available at least once a term, to reflect the growing interest in Prince William in his own right.\" Newspaper editors agreed not to publish paparazzi shots of Prince William during his time at St Andrews university in exchange for access to official photographs and stories. But the agreement threatened to break down earlier this year when the News of the World, frustrated by the lack of official access to the prince, published photographs of him returning from a trip to Tesco laden down with shopping. Prince Charles' aides complained about the story, but the following weekend the Mail on Sunday followed suit with pictures of the prince out walking with a female friend and a story implying the pair enjoyed a close relationship. There was also fierce criticism from the press about the way St James's Palace handled Prince William's 21st birthday interview in May. Tabloid editors reacted furiously after Daily Record editor Peter Cox claimed to have negotiated an exclusive interview, and Prince Charles' PR team was hastily forced to make it more widely available. \"There was a feeling that we had kept our side of the bargain but they had not kept theirs,\" said one royal correspondent. \"I think one of the real tests was when the pictures of the prince out shopping were published. That was a real wake-up call for the palace, and to their credit things have improved a lot in the past few months. We got the interview for Prince William's birthday and there has been a lot of access to Prince Harry this year.\" Prince Charles' press secretary, Colleen Harris, said the promised access was more likely to consist of photo opportunities than a repeat of the interview the prince gave to mark his 21st birthday. \"It's simply a case of reverting back to the original arrangement we had,\" she said. \"After the News of the World published its pictures, it looked as though that agreement was in jeopardy. We had never before set out the amount of access that should be provided under that agreement so we now we have said it will be once a term,\" she added. Mr Hinton, who is also executive chairman of News International, welcomed Sir Michael's proposal, saying Prince William was a \"public figure in his own right for whom a total media blackout would be entirely inappropriate\". \"I can confirm that the industry continues to accept the balance set out in September 2000. We will, of course, continue to respect the privacy of Prince William - as with any student or young person - under the terms of the [PCC] code,\" he wrote in a letter to Sir Michael. \"And we will continue to ensure that, as far as reasonably possible, a level of restraint is exercised which avoids the creation of a paparazzi market at St Andrews.\" Many royal correspondents are also concerned about who will replace Ms Harris as Prince Charles' press secretary when she leaves the job at the end of next month. \"That's a real concern. Colleen has been pretty good about making sure we are kept informed and it will be interesting to see who takes over from her,\" said one. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857",
  "title": "Press promised greater access to prince",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "uk/prince-charles",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "uk/prince-william"
  ],
  "lead": "8.30am: Prince Charles' private secretary has admitted St James's Palace has failed to provide the press with enough access to Prince William over the past two years. By Claire Cozens",
  "id": "media/2003/sep/02/pressandpublishing.themonarchy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}