{
  "content": "Sir Christopher Meyer, the outgoing chairman of the Press Complaints Commission, has stepped into the escalating debate about press freedom and privacy. He has warned that the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg may be a greater threat to the self-regulation of the British press than is generally recognised. Speaking at a Media Society event last night at the London College of Communications, Meyer pointed out that many of the judges who sit in the Strasbourg-based court came from countries with very different traditions of press and magazine freedoms from the UK. \"They may see the role of the press to inform, not to entertain. To defend the reputation of public figures,\" he said. The Strasbourg court, he added, was lacking in British lawyers schooled in the common law. Max Mosley, the president of formula 1 who won \u00a360,000 damages from the News of the World in the UK courts last autumn for breach of privacy, has appealed to the European court for a ruling that news media should be required to give advance notification before publishing a story. The newspaper industry is alarmed by what it views as a creeping attempt to create a privacy law through a series of judicial judgements. In a passionate speech to the Society of Editors last November the Daily Mail's editor-in-chief, Paul Dacre, launched a tirade against Justice Eady, who awarded Mosley the damages, for leading the attack. But Meyer said the problem was not Justice Eady: the judiciary had to incorporate judgments made under the Human Rights Act. Meyer \u2013 one of a number of industry figures expected to give evidence to the Commons culture, media and sport select committee inquiry into privacy, libel and standards in the press in March \u2013 said the Human Rights Act may need to be amended to protect the UK's self-regulatory system of press regulation. He added that section 12 of the act, which requires judges to take account of the PCC code of practice, was an issue. When the act was crafted, the then home secretary, Jack Straw, had intended this to be as a buttress to press freedom. But instead lawyers and judges were increasingly seeking to interpret the code on their terms, he said. Meyer gave as an example PCC rulings on privacy that take into account whether celebrities have previously been attention seeking, in effect sacrificing voluntarily some of their right to privacy. \"It is not clear to us [that] the judges take this into account when they look at privacy,\" he said. Meyer added that the biggest frustration of his chairmanship was that: \"I still can't get the newspapers and magazines, in print or online, to sufficiently publicise the PCC, even though it is so clearly in their interests to do so.\" His advice to his successor, Lady Peta Buscombe, was: \"You have to make sure the bread and butter stuff, the complaints, the engine room of the PCC, is going smoothly. At the same time you have to concentrate on strategy, scan horizon, and stay on the front foot.\" Meyer was speaking for the first time since it was announced he would be stepping down in April, after six years as chairman of the PCC. \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. \u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "PCC chairman Sir Christopher Meyer warns of European threat to press freedom",
  "lead": "Sir Christopher Meyer of the Press Complaints Commission says Strasbourg poses a threat to British news media. By Maggie Brown",
  "tags": [
    "media/pcc",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world",
    "politics/politics",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2009/jan/13/pcc-chairman-christopher-meyer-press-freedom",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}