{
  "content": "When Silicon Valley closes a door for spies, it opens a window. That's the conclusion of several former government officials, academics and privacy advocates in a study Harvard's Berkman Center for Internet and Society released on Monday. The report argues that despite talk that encryption from the likes of Apple and Google obstructs national security, these companies are creating many new technologies that will make surveillance easier. That's a notable finding because the study's authors include several law and order types, such as Matthew G Olsen, former director of the National Counterterrorism Center for the Obama administration who is now an executive at IronNet Cybersecurity \u2013 a startup founded by former National Security Agency director General Keith Alexander. It comes as many US law enforcement officials, including the FBI director, James Comey, have pressed tech companies to make sure they can access user communications even if they are encrypted as they travel the internet. Law enforcement officials often call this problem, \"going dark\". \"Going dark is the wrong metaphor,\" the report says. \"Are we really headed to a future in which our ability to effectively surveil criminals and bad actors is impossible? We think not.\" Contributors included cybersecurity luminary Bruce Schneier, former Google senior privacy analyst Susan Landau and current government officials who could not be named because of their day jobs. There are several reasons things may not be as bad as they seem for investigators. For one, encryption, which relies on complex math, is very hard to implement correctly. More importantly for technology companies, it can get in the way of their ability to mine user content to better target advertisements. Moreover, consumers can adopt encrypted messaging apps, but they work on phones and computers that run other less secure software. This can often give prying eyes an opening, the report says. And then there's the bright side. As tech companies focus their attention on making more consumer products \"smart\" by connecting them to the internet, they increasingly open up new surveillance windows, the report concludes. For instance, what good is an encrypted phone call if government investigators can listen in on the call through a microphone in a \"smart TV\" in the same room? In one line that was particularly jarring given the report's authors, the study suggested, \"Law enforcement or intelligence agencies may start to seek orders compelling Samsung, Google, Mattel, Nest or vendors of other networked devices to push an update or flip a digital switch to intercept the ambient communications of a target.\" There are no publicly known instances of governments using court orders to target such technologies. But the prospect is intriguing. \"We argue that communications in the future will neither be eclipsed into darkness nor illuminated without shadow,\" the report says. \"Some areas are more illuminated now than in the past and others are brightening.\"",
  "title": "Tech company encryption push is 'good for the feds' says Harvard study",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/encryption",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "world/surveillance",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/alphabet",
    "technology/computing",
    "us-news/us-national-security",
    "technology/silicon-valley",
    "business/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "The rise of mobile computing and more vulnerable internet-connected devices could actually make surveillance easier for national security officials, report says",
  "id": "technology/2016/feb/01/encryption-smart-technology-surveillance-harvard-study",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}