{
  "content": "The Daily Mail reports that the French government is prohibiting mentions of Facebook and Twitter on the nation's television and radio news bulletins. In fact, as TechCrunch made clear last week, the decision has been taken by the French TV regulator, Conseil Sup\u00e9rieur de l'Audiovisuel (CSA) - voil\u00e0 en Fran\u00e7ais. It is suddenly seeking to uphold a 1992 decree which stipulates that commercial enterprises should not be promoted on news programmes. Therefore, broadcasters must not refer to the sites unless they are relevant to a news item. CSA spokeswoman Christine Kelly explained: \"Why give preference to Facebook, which is worth billions of dollars, when there are many other social networks that are struggling for recognition?\" Facebook and Twitter may be upset by the French ban. But I have a hunch they would be relieved if the Mail itself was banned from using their brand names. It would then be impossible to see headlines such as Facebook and Twitter 'make us less human and isolate us from the real world'... and How using Facebook could raise your risk of cancer... and Facebook fantasy that could ruin my marriage... And Is Twitter broke?... and 'Arrogant Facebook failing to tackle paedophile threat', claims child protection expert... and Why Twitter users are quitters... and Millions of Facebook users putting themselves at risk of online crime... And Facebook to blame for 'friendship addiction' among young women... and Look out for repetitive strain injuries, Twitter fans are warned... and Facebook 'sex chats' blamed for one in five divorces... and on and on and on... A Facebook and Twitter ban at the Mail would surely be a blessing.",
  "title": "French 'non' to Facebook and Twitter - but what about a Mail ban?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/dailymail",
    "world/france"
  ],
  "lead": "France bans social media brand names on its TV and radio news bulletins",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2011/jun/06/twitter-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}