{
  "content": "On 25 June, barely hours before Nigeria had one of its rare victorious moments at the World Cup in Brazil, tragedy struck at home. A bomb went off in a busy mall in Abuja, killing 21 people including the editor of a leading newspaper. The response on social media mirrored that of the nation: a stream of angry, shocked tweets; sorrow over the loss of lives; and lamentation over how dangerous it is to live in Nigeria these days. Then, just as suddenly, it all petered out and we were back to tweeting football and Instagramming selfies. The next day it happened \u2013 depending on who you ask \u2013 at the one spot where people swore it couldn't. An explosion went off in the commercial capital of Lagos, where I live. Security forces, government officials and others struggled to deny it was a bomb; citizen reporters and some of the media insisted it was. There was a cloud of uncertainty over exactly what happened. At least we have the luxury of doubt. In many parts of Nigeria, there is a fatal certainty: bombs have ripped through at least six states including Kano, Kaduna, Borno, Yobe, Adamawa and Nasarawa. Sometimes, they come fast and furious, day after day. The newspapers can barely verify one before another goes off, and citizens can barely keep up. Security forces? They are clearly overwhelmed. But save for the sorrowful stares, shaking our heads in disbelief, and of course social media in overdrive, very little happens. We have come to terms with our destiny. It is what it is. Nigerians move on. Mine has become a country whose president blithely compares it to war-torn Iraq and Afghanistan, while its leaders shrug off their responsibilities and leave their affairs to fate or in god's hands. When citizens discuss these urgent matters of life and death, sane conversation often degenerates into partisan conflict, religious fault lines open up, and there are rabid insults from those who believe that defending a minority president from real and perceived enemies is more important than holding him accountable for lives lost on his watch. Which is why, these days, I do not know exactly what to say to non-Nigerians when they ask about the 276 girls who have been stolen for almost 100 days. I do not know how to tell the world the truth: that many Nigerians have already given up hope that the girls will be brought home, or that demanding that the government do its job will succeed. I don't know how to tell them that many Nigerians have even begun to attack protesters, the president's special assistant branding them enemies of government, some saying they cry more than the bereaved, others insisting that the problems in the north of Nigeria should solely be solved by northern leaders. The sad truth is that, save for those like the inspiring protesters who have continued the daily sit-out in Abuja, supported via social media campaigns across the world, the rest of the country is eager to move on. We are struggling to contend with the chain of tragedies that have afflicted us \u2013 more citizens kidnapped, villages near Chibok and others attacked, bombs going off in commercial areas. We feel our lives are hard enough already, so we refuse to grapple with the bigger questions. We cannot worry too long about girls kidnapped in Borno when explosions are happening in Apapa. We cannot even be inspired by news that more than 60 women have reportedly escaped from Boko Haram. It merely reminds us of the 68 abducted last month near Damboa in Borno, and of the hundreds still in captivity. So the protests thin out, the tweets slow down, we will ourselves to move on. But can we afford to keep moving on, numbing ourselves to carnage, coming to terms with tragedy as a way of life? On the elevator to the 17th floor in my New York hotel last week, an Israeli said to me: \"You see what's happening in Iraq, it looks like Boko Haram wants to do the same in Nigeria.\" I smiled indulgently and told him \"No. It won't happen.\" He looked at me, the amusement clear in his eyes: \"And why do you think it can't? Give me one good reason.\" And there, as I fumbled around for an intelligent answer, I was reminded of why I have stuck with the others who refuse to move on from #BringBackOurGirls. Those 276 girls stand as a symbol \u2013 for the failure of governance in our country, for the failure of citizens to demand better until we get it, for the failure of our country to protect its children, for our steady descent into anarchy. The #BringBackOurGirls protest is a demand: for a government we can trust, for a country we can have faith in, for a future we can believe in. But it is also a message to ourselves as citizens, and it is a desperately urgent one: we cannot afford to move on.",
  "title": "Nigerians must continue to fight terrorism, not simply move on | Chude Jideonwo",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/nigeria",
    "world/africa",
    "world/boko-haram",
    "world/protest",
    "technology/twitter",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Chude Jideonwo: The mood in Nigeria is one of resignation over terrorist attacks and other atrocities, but when it comes to our missing schoolgirls I refuse to give up",
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/jul/07/nigerians-fight-terrorism-not-move-on-missing-schoolgirls",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}