{
  "content": "Leaders of a new political party set up to fight planned changes to the NHS are to join hundreds of online activists to co-ordinate the next stage of the campaign against the government's health reforms. The National Health Action party is hoping to put up at least 50 candidates at the next election and on Saturday its leaders will join bloggers, online activists and trade unionists at the Netroots conference in London to launch a joint campaign against the \"marketisation and privatisation\" of the NHS. The party is made up of health professionals and includes the former independent MP Richard Taylor, a retired consultant who was elected to represent Wyre Forest in 2001 in protest over the downgrading of his local hospital. NHA was launched by Clive Peedell, a cancer specialist and the co-chair of the NHS Consultants Association, this year. \"There is a unique opportunity for the British public to get involved and shape a new political party using the tools of social media. This medium can help us increase our membership, develop funding streams, spread our message and help in the recruitment of prospective parliamentary candidates. This networking opportunity with those who are at the cutting edge of new techniques in social media will help us grow quickly as an organisation, which is crucial if we are to contest a 2015 election.\" The conference, which is modelled on the successful Netroots Nation campaign in the US, will take place at the TUC House in central London and is expected to attract 500 participants. Sunny Hundal, one of the organisers and editor of the Liberal Conspiracy blog, said: \"We want to help people learn from each other and build organisations that can push back at rightwing institutions and media bias. The web offers powerful and simple tools for people to use for activism and campaigning. This is where we learn from each other on how to do that.\" It is the second Netroots event to be held in London and Hundal said that this year the event would focus on the government's proposed shakeup of the NHS with a session on the National Health Action party, one on mapping the NHS health and social care bill and another on what action people opposed to the plans can take. \"Not enough people know how badly it will affect services and what we can do to challenge that,\" he said. The event aims to link local campaigns with tax avoidance groups, welfare rights campaigners and anti-cuts activists as well as those opposed to the coalition's NHS reforms. Political commentator and author Owen Jones said the event would bring leftwing activists together in the ongoing fight for social justice. \"We live in a time of political and social upheaval here in Britain and across the world, and social media is at the heart of it. The left has started to come to grips with social media, but not quickly enough. If we are going to be effective in our struggles in the 'age of austerity', we need to be far more effective.\" Sue Marsh, a disability campaigner involved in the Spartacus Report, which helped inflict a hat-trick of welfare reform defeats on the government in the Lords, will also attend the event. \"We've entered a new era where people are no longer prepared to have their views expressed for them,\" she said. \"They want to speak for themselves \u2026 social media gives everyone a chance to change their world. Egypt can testify. Whether we use it to change opinion, win hearts and minds or build a community, the only limits are our own.\"",
  "title": "National Health Action to launch social media campaign against NHS reforms",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/health",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/politics",
    "society/nhs",
    "society/health",
    "society/society",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "New political party set up to oppose NHS reforms hopes social media will help spread message and attract members",
  "id": "politics/2012/jun/26/national-health-action-social-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}