{
  "content": "Barack Obama's inauguration as president led to a record number of video streams and a surge in online traffic across several leading US news websites. Web traffic metrics firm Akamai said that live coverage and streaming of Obama's inauguration created the fifth highest peak across news websites since it started recording data in August 2005. The peak for web traffic, according to Akamai, came at 11.45am EST \u2013 4.45pm in the UK \u2013 on Tuesday as 5,401,250 web users hungry for news of the inauguration logged on to news sites within a minute of each other. Akamai recorded its biggest peak in web traffic peak in November last year when Obama clinched the presidential election. However, the inauguration differed from most other big news events in that web users went online looking for video streams of Obama being sworn in as the 44th US president. According to the New York Times, Akamai \u2013 which aids media organisations including the NYT and the Wall Street Journal steam video \u2013 reported a record-breaking day, feeding up 7m streams at one time. CNN also claimed that a Tuesday was a record day for video streams on its website. The news broadcaster said CNN.com generated more than 21m live video streams by 3.30pm EST (8.30pm in the UK), shattering its daily video streaming record of just over 5m live streams, set on election day in November. At the traffic peak just prior to Obama's inauguration speech, CNN said it was running more than 1m concurrent streams. CNN.com also had more than 136m page views on Tuesday. Social networking site Facebook, which linked up with CNN for inauguration coverage, saw more than 600,000 status updates during the event, according to Cnet. About 4,000 Facebook status updates were made every minute during the inauguration, peaking the minute Obama began his speech when around 8,500 were set in 60 seconds. Associated Press said it provided 8m live video streams through its online video services for the historic event. AP runs an ad-supported online video network providing content to more than 2,000 newspaper, broadcast and other media websites throughout the US. Mogulus, a live streaming service used by cable channel C-Span, USA Today and other Gannett newspapers across the US, also set a new traffic record with 105,000 concurrent viewers and more than 1m visitors in total, Cnet reported. MSNBC.com delivered more than 9m live streams, more than 5m on-demand streams, and 80m-plus page views by lunchtime on Tuesday EST, AdWeek reported, as it used the inauguration to launch a new video explorer tool. Foxnews.com also had a bumper day as it delivered about 5m streams by 5pm, a record for a single day. According to Blogpulse, a web metrics website run by Nielsen, the most linked-to news story from blogs on Tuesday was CNN.com's live schedule of events for the inauguration, while five of the 10 most linked-to videos across the web yesterday related to the new president. \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. \u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Web traffic soars for Barack Obama inauguration",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "us-news/obama-inauguration",
    "us-news/obama-administration",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/facebook",
    "us-news/us-politics"
  ],
  "lead": "Barack Obama's inauguration as president led to a record number of video streams and a surge in online traffic. By Oliver Luft",
  "id": "media/2009/jan/22/barack-obama-inauguration-web-traffic-soars",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}