{
  "content": "And that's all for today. Details of the Barclays pay revolt, and reaction to it, starts here. Jill Treanor's latest news story on Barclays' stormy AGM is here. Here's the earlier summary of all the action at the Royal Festival Hall. And our photo gallery is here. Bad news for AstraZeneca as shareholder rebellion on pay turns out to be worse than Barclays Thanks, and good night. GW After Barclays, comes AstraZeneca. The pharmaceuticals group, which released results earlier and has been reportedly the target of a \u00a360bn approach from Pfizer, has just released the results of its annual meeting today. And they don't make happy reading for the company. Some 38.5% of shareholders voted against the remuneration report, even before taking into account the abstentions. Director Jean-Philippe Courtois may be feeling nervous too - 43% of shareholders voted against his re-election. His day job is being president of Microsoft International. Full details of the vote here. The better than expected results from Apple and Facebook lifted technology shares, writes Nick Fletcher, while hopes of further deals in the healthcare sector also supported stock markets. But renewed worries about tensions between Russia and Ukraine saw shares come off their best levels, as investors were reminded geo-political risks had not just suddenly gone away. So by the close: \u2022 The FTSE 100 finished 28.26 points or 0.42% higher at 6703.00, a near seven week high \u2022 Germany's Dax edged up 0.05% to 9548.68 \u2022 France's Cac closed 0.64% higher at 4479.54 \u2022 Italy's FTSE MIB added 0.66% better at 21,819.48 \u2022 Spain's Ibex ended up 0.36% at 10,462 On Wall Street the Dow Jones Industrial Average is currently 13 points or 0.08% better. Barclays, incidently, closed 3.1p better at 252p despite facing the wrath of investors at its annual meeting. Another institutional investor, F&amp;C, has revealed that it also joined the rebellion against Barclays over bankers' pay. Eugenia Jackson, head of corporate governance at F&amp;C Investments, acknowledged that the bank had made some progress on remuneration -- but not enough. Our vote has taken into consideration improvements in the company's remuneration practices, including a clear link between Transform programme targets and executive remuneration; assessment of executive and increasingly employee performance against Balanced Scorecard, as well as consideration of culture and adherence to corporate values in remuneration decisions. We also acknowledge flat executive salaries, the forfeiting of bonuses by the chief executive for the second year and the Committee's ability to keep the recruitment package for the new finance director largely within the stated policy. \"However our vote reflects concerns over the imbalance between employee and shareholder returns, including a year-on-year increase in the group bonus pool and compensation to income ratio against the backdrop of flat dividend, decline in adjusted profitability, returns on equity that did not cover the cost of equity, and a \u00a35.8 billion rights issue undertaken to improve capital adequacy. We understand the rationale behind the Board's decision to increase incentive pool in 2013, and appreciate the Board's commitment to continuing its repositioning journey and reducing the compensation to income ratio, but cannot support the implementation of the remuneration plan in 2013 because we believe that aggregate rewards to staff were excessive relative to performance.\" The High Pay Centre has congratulated the institutional shareholders, such as Standard Life, who voted against Barclays' remuneration report today. HPC director, Deborah Hargreaves, said the protest should spur Barclays to change its pay policies - rather than simply competing with big-spending US banks (who Sir David Walker blamed this morning for pushing up Barclays bonuses payments). She said: It's good to see major shareholders like Standard Life finally waking up to the fact that their customers are getting ripped off by the bankers' pay racket. They should keep up the pressure for a reform of the bonus policy and if top bankers threaten to leave Barclays should train up more people to take their place. The banks should also find other ways to reward people rather than outrageous bonuses. BREAKING: One in three Barclays investors has refused to back its pay report, in an embarrassing bloody nose for the bank over its decision to hike bankers' bonuses. The bank just announced that 7.1 million shares were cast in favour of the remuneration report, and 2.24m million opposed it. But a further 1.4m votes were withheld -- this is the traditional, old-school way that City investors show their displeasure without actually voting against a company. That means 34% of shareholders failed to back the pay plan, with 66% in favour. Most of the other resolutions were passed with majorities in the high 90%, including the one asking for permission to pay bonuses of up to 200% of basic pay. Here's all the details. World stock markets have fallen back this afternoon, as escalating tensions in Ukraine spook investors. The news that Russian troops have begun military exercises close to the Ukraine border wiped out the relief created by Apple and Facebook's strong results last night Germany's DAX has fallen over 1% -- many German companies have links to Russia -- while the FTSE 100 is now flat, having been up 30-odd points this morning. Our Ukraine liveblog has all the details: Ukraine: government troops move against pro-Russian separatists - live updates We're still waiting for the results of Barclays' shareholder votes. Reuters reckons it will \"easily win\" a binding vote on being allowed to pay up to twice the level of employees' salaries as bonuses, under new European Union rules. From the Royal Festival Hall, City editor Jill Treanor writes: Barclays faced shareholder scorn over its pay policies at an acrimonious annual general meeting today, where the board was accused of greed and major City investor Standard Life led the protests against a \u00a32.4bn bonus pot. Repeated attempts by the chairman Sir David Walker to insist bonus payouts were down on the previous year failed to quell repeated questioning about the pay deals for bankers. One private investor who expressed his irritation at the dividend, poor shareholder performance and \u00a35.8bn cash call last year, told the packed Royal Festival Hall: \"We're paying for Manchester United but we are getting Colchester United\". Such investor meetings are usually dominated by small shareholders but Standard Life spoke out to say it had voted against the remuneration policy..... Here's Jill's full story: Barclays AGM: investors protest over pay and bonuses Even by the standards of recent stormy shareholder events, that was quite a fiery annual general meeting. Barclays won't have enjoyed being told its bankers belong in jail, or being compared with a League One football club. But the more measured, public, criticism from Standard Life will probably have stung more. Here's a quick summary of the key points: Barclays has defended its decision to increase bonuses for its investment bankers despite a fall in profits last year, insisting that it had to pay more to attract and retain top staff. Sir David Walker, its chairman, insisted the move was done in the shareholders' best interests, and indicated it won't have to happen again. But the move was dramatically criticised by a major shareholder, Standard Life. It revealed it will vote against the bank's remuneration report, saying the 10% hike in bonuses can't be defended. Alison Kennedy, governance &amp; stewardship director at Standard Life Investments, said it was wrong to raise bonus payments rather than rewarding shareholders. She said: We are unconvinced that the amount of the 2013 bonus pool was in the best interests of shareholders, particularly when we consider how the bank's profits are divided amongst employees, shareholders and ongoing investment in the business. The dividend was unchanged in the year and an additional \u00a35.8bn of capital was raised from shareholders. We also believe that this decision has had negative repercussions on the bank's reputation. A series of small investors criticised Barclays -- one said that the bank was paying Manchester United wages for a Colchester United performance (although some of Man U's recent performances might have disgraced the mighty U's). Another accused it of corporate greed. A third said it was \"jam tomorrow\" for investors, but \"champagne today\" for the bankers. A fourth declared CEO Antony Jenkins should be removed. There were also protests outside the AGM, held at the Royal Festival Hall. ActionAid accused Barclays of helping firms dodge tax by locating overseas, while World Development Movement said the bank was helping to finance harmful coal mining overseas. Here's a picture gallery of the protests. Full coverage of the AGM starts here. The results of today's shareholder votes are due this afternoon. Before the meeting started, Barclays also warned the City that profits are down at its fixed-income arm. Back to the Royal Festival Hall, where Barclays chairman Sir David Walker has told reporters he is a little irritated with Standard Life for its public attack on the bank's pay policies. Excitement in the City -- Deloitte has just announced that it has been appointed as receivers for the Gherkin office tower. Here's the official statement: Phil Bowers and Neville Kahn of Deloitte, the business advisory firm, have today been appointed Joint Fixed Charge Receivers of 30 St Mary Axe, London. The building has been well leased since the initial default in 2009 and remains in trophy condition. The continuing defaults are due to the asset's complex, multicurrency capital structure. Adverse interest rate and currency movements have caused the total senior liabilities secured by the property to increase materially since closing. Neville Kahn, Joint Receiver and Restructuring Services Partner at Deloitte commented: \"The Senior Lenders were reluctant to appoint a Receiver but felt they had no choice due to the ongoing defaults, which have remained uncured for over five years, and concerns that the Borrowers' lack of equity in the transaction had caused their incentives to become misaligned with the Lenders'.\" Mr Kahn continued: \"The Gherkin is a truly exceptional building, a landmark recognised around the globe. Our priority is to preserve the value of this asset. We are in the process of communicating with all tenants and working with the property manager to ensure the continuation of all property management services with no interruption to tenants.\" Here's a photo gallery of the demonstrations outside today's annual general meeting: Barclays hit by protests at AGM over pay and bonuses After a flurry of voting, that's the end of the AGM - and the Barclays board exit the room.... Barclays has heard enough! After almost two hours of virtual non-stop criticism from investors, Sir David Walker has called for a vote. But with 26 different resolutions on the table, this could take a while -- and I believe we don't get the full results straight away. Another investors tells Barclays that it should be paying higher dividends and smaller bonuses: A couple more highlights from the indefatigable Jill: (those allowances are designed to dodge the EU's rules that bonuses can't be more than 200% of basic salary) John Farmer, a small investor (and a regular attendee at AGMs for many years) has the floor - and accuses Barclays management of \"going native\" over bankers' pay. Barclays irate investors have dashed hopes that the Q&amp;A could be wrapped up by 1pm. That lunch will have to wait, Sir David..... Another investor points out that Barclays could have paid rather more to its shareholders if it had trimmed its bonus pot -- chairman Sir David Walker tries to butt in... Veteran fund manager, and Conservative Party donor, Patrick Evershed gets a heckling from fellow investors for standing up and defending Barclays' bonuses. One shareholder shouts out that someone should call a taxi for Evershed..... Another irate Barclays shareholder tells CEO Antony Jenkins he should leave the company: Correction, that question on mountain-top mining came from an organisation in West Virginia: Things are pretty tetchy.... Now Barclays is being accused of helping to finance ecologically harmful mining operations: Now ActionAid accuses Barclays of helping clients use overseas tax havens (I covered its concerns earlier). Juliet Samuel of The Times makes an excellent point -- it's vital that Standard Life goes public with its concerns about bonuses, rather than just having a cosy chat (as Sir John Sunderland appears to prefer) Most big shareholders have already cast their votes through the 'proxy' system - and the Barclays board are safe, it seems. The Times economics correspondent, Phil Aldrick, is stunned that Barclays told Standard Life not to express its concerns over bankers' bonuses at its own Annual General Meeting. Investors are hammering away at Barclays over its pay policies -- saying the bank's staff simply aren't worth the money. Here's the full text of Standard Life's dramatic comments at Barclays AGM, in which it revealed it would vote against the bank's remuneration report in protest at the decision to increase investment bank bonuses. My name is Alison Kennedy and I am a Governance &amp; Stewardship Director at Standard Life Investments which is a long term investor in Barclays Bank plc. On behalf of our clients, we have today instructed our proxy to vote against Resolution 2, the approval of the Remuneration Report. We did not take this decision lightly but, on balance, believe this was the right thing to do. We appreciate that there were competitive pressures during 2013, particularly in the Investment Banking business and that the board was seeking to protect a business franchise under threat. Nevertheless, we are unconvinced that the amount of the 2013 bonus pool was in the best interests of shareholders, particularly when we consider how the bank's profits are divided amongst employees, shareholders and ongoing investment in the business. The dividend was unchanged in the year and an additional \u00a35.8bn of capital was raised from shareholders. We also believe that this decision has had negative repercussions on the bank's reputation. I should make it clear that we have supported the resolutions to approve the forward-looking Remuneration Policy and to approve a limit on variable remuneration of 2 times fixed remuneration. Looking to the future, the board has stated its intention of reducing the compensation to net income ratio over the medium term. We support this intention and it is important that, over time, the board demonstrates convincingly that this will be achieved. However, we should like to see more clarity about the criteria the board will consider when determining the ratio. This would help set expectations and improve accountability as well as helping to restore trust. Will the board consider providing such clarity over the coming year? From the room, our City editor Jill Treanor says that Sir John Sunderland showed his irritation at facing her at the AGM, asked her to have made the remarks during the private consultations with big City investors. A Barclays investor puts the boot into the board, saying they are paying Premiership wages but getting a lower division performance. Much hilarity in the audience... Colchester are in the third tier of English football -- not sure how they feel about being compared to Barclays.... Barclays shareholders applaud loudly at the suggestion that the bank's entire remuneration committee should be sacked. Sir David Walker insists that the bank doesn't pay more than it has too -- but those in the Royal Festival Hall clearly aren't convinced. Sir John Sunderland responds to Standard Life's attack on bankers bonuses, saying it should have made its concerns in private, and insists bonuses fell last year (if you ignore the impact of 2012's Libor fines) Sunderland then asks whether Barclays pays too much -- investors shout \"yes\" back at him. ShareAction, the campaign group, says Sunderland is showing \"exactly\" why Barclays has problems.... Drama at the Barclays AGM: Standard Life has just declared that it will vote against the bank's pay policies. Standard Life representative says it cannot accept the decision to pay higher bonuses to investment bankers who generated much less profit last year. That's quite a (symbolic) slap in the face for the Barclays board, which had already tried to address criticism by replacing the head of the remuneration committee. As the FT explains here, City veteran Crawford Gillies is joining the Barclays board as a non-executive and will take over the helm of its remuneration committee from Sir John Sunderland. The Local Authority Pension Fund Forum (LAPFF) has the floor, and arguing that Sir John Sunderland, the outgoing head of Barclays remuneration committee, shouldn't be allowed to lead the search for its next chairman. Walker insists that Sunderland is the right man for the job -- as he doesn't want the top job himself! LAPFF argues that Sunderland is the wrong choice, given he approved the controversial increase in bonuses in 2013 (details here). One shareholder accuses Barclays of a \"go to hell\" culture (throwing Antony Jenkins' slogan of being a \"go-to\" bank back in his face), over recent changes to overdrafts. Jenkins doesn't accept that that Barclays management is greedy.... Barclays board is now accused of \"management greed\" -- winning applause from other investors in the room. And we're off -- with the first shareholder asking whether Barclays could break up its investment bank. You'll find out next month when we publish our strategic review, Walker replies. Nearly time for Barclays investors to have their say -- David Walker hopes to crank though them by 1pm, so asks shareholders to avoid any speeches. But with 30 questions already lodged, he may have to wait for his lunchtime sandwiches... Jenkins is also insisting that Barclays investment banking arm is an \"important\" part of the mix in the company's future. He received polite applause at the end of his address. A cool reception for Antony Jenkins... ITV's Joel Hills has also been taking the temperature of Barclays investors. They're pretty chilly. And here's a snap of World Development Movement's protests over Barclays' funding for coal producers (details here). In a separate statement issued earlier this morning, Barclays warned that its first quarter profit had been hit by lower revenues from its fixed income operations. Here's the Reuters report: Barclays said its first-quarter profit fell after a \"significant\" drop in revenue from its investment bank's fixed- income operations, extending an industry slump across that business. A cost-cutting programme was starting to show a \"material benefit\", however, and would help offset the drop in investment bank profits. Barclays said it will report a \"small reduction\" in adjusted pretax profit compared with a year ago when it publishes first-quarter results on May 6. Most investment banks are expected to show income fell at the start of the year as bond and interest-rate trading struggled. \"Our fixed income, credit and commodities (FICC) business continued to face many of the challenges seen in the second half of 2013 with a significant year-on-year reduction in FICC income, reflecting difficult market conditions and a strong comparative performance for Q1 last year,\" Barclays chief executive Antony Jenkins said. Barclays chief executive, Antony Jenkins, is addressing the AGM now. His message to shareholders that he is \"impatient\" to sort the bank out. He insists the bank isn't complacent: I am impatient to deliver the performance, and the dividend, you deserve - sustainable, predictable performance though the whole cycle. I am impatient to drive forward our cost reduction programme. And I am impatient to see growth across the Group. Of course, we face significant challenges. I said at the time of Transform that progress would not be uniform or linear in a programme of this scale and ambition. That's from the statement released to the stock market a few minutes ago. Sir David Walker also told Barclays shareholders that he doesn't expect to raise bonuses again if bankers haven't really earned it: He says: A core parameter for the intensive review of strategy for the bank that we are now close to concluding is that the investment bank has to deliver on a sustainable basis the performance and returns profile which our shareholders rightly expect. On this basis your board and I do not intend or expect to face again a similar set of circumstances that led to the very difficult decisions we had to take last year. He also argues that the bonus pool actually fell last year, if you ignore the fact that some bonuses were withheld in 2012 because of the Libor scandal. Barclays chairman Sir David Walker is defending the decision to increase bonuses by 10% to \u00a32.4bn in 2013 (even though the bank's profits fell by 32%). He told shareholders that \"the decision on pay this year was among the hardest that we have had to take\", but insisted that it was in the company's best interests. With the resignation rate for senior employees in the US almost doubling in 2013, Barclays board decided it had to boost pay to retain staff. Here's the key line: But we were faced last year, 2013, with a situation in which we were losing people who were crucial to the future of the investment bank in an extremely competitive environment in which total pay in some parts of the major US investment banks rose by 15% or more. Our resignation rate for senior employees in the US almost doubled in 2013. We saw significantly higher numbers of high quality people we wanted to recruit turning down our offers. In this situation, where there is a genuine threat to the health of the franchise, our duty of care is to protect value for shareholders. The challenge was the need for damage limitation and franchise protection. The Companies Act is clear on this point. The statutory role of your board - and I quote - is to \"promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members as a whole\". That was the test we applied when we considered this most difficult of decisions. We took our decision on bonuses in the firm belief that it was in the best long-term interests of shareholders to protect key franchises in the bank through this difficult phase of transition. Despite all the reservations that have been expressed, I remain confident in my view that we took the right decision. The full statement is online here. Walker also told investors that he shares their pain: I imagine his monthly pay cheque softens the blow, though The Barclays AGM is underway, even though people are still queuing to get in. Here we go! Small shareholders are also unhappy with Barclays, over the bonuses paid to its investment bankers last year. The UK Shareholders Association has asked Barclays to explain how it is meeting its legal obligations to shareholders, given dividends are lagging far behind bankers' pay rises. Back in February, it demanded answers in a letter to chairmen Sir David Walker. It's online here. Here's a flavour: UKSA has noted the results statement put out by Barclays showing how it has performed for 2013. That statement shows, inter alia, that the profit before tax is down 32% from 2012 and that the return on shareholders' equity has halved from 9% to 4.5%, but you have increased the bonus pool for your investment bankers by \u00a3210 million and the compensation ratio for the investment bank has gone up from 39.6% to 43.2%. That statement also shows that the total dividend for 2013 will be 6.5p per share. This compares with 34.0p per share paid for 2008, a reduction of 81%. The World Development Movement accuses Barclays of fuelling climate change by providing over \u00a33bn of funding to coal producers. Two protesters dressed as Barclay's \"Eagles\" (its corporate logo) are cycling outside the Royal Festival Hall on London's for-hire bikes with coal stuffed in the front . World Development accuse Barclays of sticking with coal when other banks have pulled out. They say: Coalburning releases more greenhouse gases per tonne than any other fossil fuel, driving climate change which disproportionately affects the world's poorest people. In Indonesia, Barclays has loaned \u00a3127 million to mining company Bumi Resources, responsible for evicting indigenous people in Indonesian Borneo from their land. Since 2009, it has also loaned \u00a31.6 billion to BHP Billiton, which plans to open coal mines across a vast area of the Borneo rainforest. Barclays was also the top global financer of 'mountaintop removal' coal mining in 2013. The tops of more than 500 mountains in the USA have been blasted off for coal. Banks JP Morgan Chase, Wells Fargo, and BNP Paribas have pulled out of mountaintop removal, but Barclays has increased its financing of the practice, closing \u00a3327 million in loan and bond transactions in 2013. Another group of protestors, urging Barclays not to help companies avoid tax: Even Barclays own shareholders are in a bad mood, it seems: Protesters are also accusing Barclays of helping clients set up in offshore tax havens, depriving developing nations of funds. Here's the scene: Tom Fyans, head of campaigns for ActionAid, accuses Barclays of hurting the world's poorest people to make profits for its bankers: \"The winners at this year's AGM are likely to be Barclays' hugely expensive fleet of investment bankers who plan to award themselves millions of pounds in bonuses. But the losers will be people in some of the world's poorest countries. \"Barclays continues to help businesses operating in poor African countries set up in known tax havens. As long as it continues to do this \u2013 Antony Jenkins' promise that his bank is \"changing\" looks increasingly hollow.\" Over in London, protesters have gathered outside the Royal Festival Hall to protest against Barclays as the bank prepares to hold its annual general meeting. Aid campaigners, and those pushing for a financial transaction tax, are demonstrating, as my colleague Jill Treanor reports. ShareAction, another campaign group, are also there - and report that the protests are \"peaceful and fun\" protests. There's a strong Robin Hood theme.... We'll be tracking the action for the next few hours.... Speaking of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi is telling an audience in Amsterdam that the ECB could launch a \"broad-based\" asset purchase programme if the inflation outlook were to worsen. He also said that the ECB could cut interest rates if tensions in the bond market reared up (tightening monetary policy), or launch a \"longer-term refinancing operation to encourage bank lending\". Lots of possibilities, there, but no concrete action. Spain just sold \u20ac5.6bn of bonds at the lowest interest rates since the euro was created, according to Reuters. That included a three-year bond, at an average yield of just 1.022%, and a 10-year bond at just 3.059%. More encouraging news for Spain after its growth forecast (see 9.32am). It's also further proof that the risk of default has been eroded away. and that investors expect the European Central Bank to act to stimulate the economy and avoid a deflationary slump. The current low inflation rates have also been credited with driving the eurozone debt rally --- with prices rising at just 0.5% per year, the current low yields look more attractive. Apple and Facebook's strong results are going to push shares higher on Wall Street when trading begins in under five hours. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite is being called up more than 1%, in the future's market, with the Dow and S&amp;P also expected to rise. Joao Monteiro, analyst at Valutrades, says last night's earnings reports have \"certainly served to boost sentiment as far as futures markets go and we're looking at sizable gains for Wall Street at the open.\" Results from Caterpillar, Microsoft, Coca-Cola and GM could chance the picture, of course.... AstraZeneca is holding a conference call with financial reports now, and refusing to discuss the reports that America's Pfizer has considered launching a massive \u00a360bn bid. Interesting developments over at Britain's troubled Co-op Group --The Labour party is considering severing its commercial relationship. Labour has a loan worth more than \u00a31m with the Co-op Bank, and may now switch itto trade union-owned Unity Trust Bank. But as politics editor Patrick Wintour explains, it's not clear if Labour is jumping or being pushed.... A spokesman said that any move had not yet been finalised, adding: \"The Labour party is constantly reviewing its financial arrangements. All decisions are taken for commercial reasons.\" It is not clear the extent to which Labour has initiated the shift or whether the Co-op bank is itself encouraging the move as part of a wider attempt by the bank to loosen, and ultimately sever, its complex historic relations to the Labour party. More here: Labour and Co-op Bank may sever ties The relief over Apple and Facebook's results has helped to push the FTSE 100 to a six-week high, up 35 points to 6710. That's its highest level since March 11, as investors continue to welcome both companies' forecast-beating sales and profits. The blue chip index is being led by drugs firm (and potential bid target) AstraZeneca, whose shares are up 3.5% after it reported good progress with new anti-cancer drugs. Mining giant Anglo American are up 3%, after posting a rise in output (apart from in Platinum, where ongoing strikes have hit production) Unilever, though, is dragging down the market. Its shares have fallen 1.2% after reporting a 6.3% drop in revenues. It is also looking for buyers for its SlimFast brand and north American pasta sauces business - full story. German companies have shrugged off the Ukraine crisis, with business sentiment in the eurozone's largest economy rising this month. The business climate index, conducted by Munich thinktank IFO, rose to 111.2 from 110.7 in March. Firms said that their business expectations had risen this month (at 107.3 from 106.4), while current conditions are a little better too (115.3 from 115.2). Spain's economic recovery has picked up pace this quarter, according to its central bank's new forecast. The Bank of Spain predicted that GDP rose by 0.4% in the first three months of 2014, twice as rapidly as in the final quarter of 2013. If they're right (and we find out at the end of April) it's another signal that the eurozone economy is putting the ravages of the debt crisis behind it. But 0.4% growth isn't enough to make much impact in Spain's jobless total, where one in four adults are our of work. Shares in German chipmaker Dialog Semiconductor, whose semiconductors are used in iPhones, have surged 6% this morning on the back of Apple's strong results. Apple's forecast-beating smartphone sales bode well for Dialog, explains DZ Bank analyst Harald Schnitzer who told clients: \"Good news for Dialog Semiconductor. The product pipeline with Apple remains well filled.\" Worth noting that France's Alstom did issue a somewhat cagey statement following the reports that GE could be planning a major takeover bid: \"In response to recent speculation in the economic press, Alstom is not informed of any potential public tender offer for the shares of the company\". As fastFT points out, that's hardly a full-throated denial, and doesn't mean that talks haven't taken place between the two boardrooms... Takeover fever has reached the Paris stock market today -- shares in French turbine and train maker Alstom have jumped 11% this morning, on reports that General Electric is planning a $13bn bid. Ishaq Siddiqi of ETX Capital explains on why Facebook and Apple's shares jumped by 4% and 7% respectively in after-hours trading*: Facebook's mobile business was the standout performer, pleasing market participants who were once unsure how FB will monitize itself appropriately. Clearly, mobile advertising is where the real growth is for the company who reported a 59% jump in the period as monthly active mobile users passed 1 billion. Facebook beat on other metrics too; revenues were better while earnings per share doubled \u2013 no wonder Zuckerberg was happy to splash out on big money purchases of WhatsApp and Oculus VR. Meanwhile, Apple pleased the market with better than expected iPhone sales, particularly in China which represented a 17% jump in total unit sales. Following three or so quarters of underwhelming iPhone sales, the market was fearful the tech giant will again disappoint but that was not the case. Additionally, the company is returning more than $30billion to shareholders in its capital return programme whilst increasing the dividend. Furthermore, the product pipeline brings further cheer \u2013 iPhone6 is expected this year as well as a reported 'phablet' and a potential iWatch. * - Silicon Valley firms traditionally report their earnings once the New York stock market has shut, due to the three-hour time gap. Britain doesn't (alas) have tech companies to match Facebook or Apple, but shares in some of our smaller IT companies are rallying. Imagination Technologies, the UK semiconductor developer, has seen its shares jump 5% this morning, while set-top box maker Pace are up 4%. And our biggest tech firm, ARM Holdings, has risen over 1%. All three firms had suffered this year as investors began worrying that the technology sector was entering another bubble (although comparisons with the crazy dot-com days, when companies were floating with little more than ideas and potential, feel daft) Apple and Facebook's forecast-beating results have given European stock markets a lift this morning. Here's the early prices: FTSE 100: up 31 points at 6706, +0.5% Germany's DAX: up 48 points at 9593, +0.5% France's CAC: up 26 points at 4477, +0.6% CMC Markets analyst Michael Hewson confirms that tech crash jitters have been balmed, but flags up that Facebook is still very highly valued compared to its current earning: Concerns about a fall in Apple's revenues proved to be unfounded as they came in at $45.6bn, above the downgraded number of $44bn that prompted the sell-off seen at the end of January, but the company did nudge down its guidance outlook for the remainder of the year. Facebook shares also rose sharply after the company reported a rise in sales of 72% for the first three months of 2014, as mobile advertising continued to pay dividends, assuaging concerns that the company wouldn't be able to generate significant revenues. The only question remains as to whether this type of growth, good as it is, merits a forward valuation of 50. Welcome to our rolling coverage of events across the financial markets, the world economy, the eurozone and business. There's a palpable sense of relief in the markets this morning as decent results from both Facebook and Apple calm fears that the technology sector is heading for a crash, and sent their own shares surging in after-hours trading in New York. The two US tech titans both gave analyst forecasts a drubbing last night, with strong increases in both revenues and profits, just a day after activist investor David Einhorn declared that it was \"clear\" that the tech sector was in a bubble. Facebook, though, reported a 72% surge in revenues to $2.5bn -- driven by strong growth in its mobile business -- with profits all-but-tripling over the last three months. Almost half the world's internet users are now on the social network site, it declared, as it blew past analyst forecasts for the fourth quarter in a row. Brian Blau, an analyst at Gartner, summed up the mood: \"Quarter after quarter Facebook has fairly easily beaten expectations...They clearly have a handle on their mobile business.\" More here: Facebook quarterly earnings soar on mobile platform success Apple was on song too -- with revenues of $45.6bn, well above analysts expectations of $43.5bn, and a 17% leap in iPhones sales (although iPad sales missed forecasts). It also boosted its share buyback by $30bn (making a small dent in its cash pile), and also announced a 7-1 stock split which could make its stock more tempting to small investors. More here: Apple profits surprise investors as company launches charm offensive Wall Street loved the look of both results; Facebook shares surged 4% in after-hours trading, while Apple romped over 7% higher. And that's likely to give European markets a lift this morning too. Mike van Dulken, head of research at Accendo Markets, explains: US futures got a boost after hours from Apple and Facebook earnings reports - investors welcoming a boost to the latter's payout programme (stock buyback +30%, dividend +8%). Amazon and Microsoft report their own results tonight, which could give further clues on whether tech valuations have been driven too high. But for now, there's optimism that companies are delivering the goods. Construction and mining equipment giant Caterpillar also reports its results today -- often a good insight into the state of the global economy. As IG's Chris Weston says: Caterpillar is one of the few companies globally that report earnings that can have implications on other asset classes. While in London, Barclays AGM is going to be a lively affair - with protests over bankers' pay and its activities in the development world. And in Europe, ECB president Mario Draghi is giving a speech in Amsterdam this morning to mark the 200th anniversary of the Dutch central bank. I'll be tracking all the developments through the day....",
  "title": "Barclays shareholders revolt: 34% fail to back pay report",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/debt-crisis",
    "business/barclay",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/apple",
    "business/stock-markets"
  ],
  "lead": "Standard Life leads protests against Barclay's bonus pot, as tax campaigners, development charities and small shareholders  all attack the bank",
  "id": "business/blog/2014/apr/24/apple-and-facebook-results-calm-fears-barclays-agm-live",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}