{
  "content": "David Cameron found himself accused of betrayal by the victims of phone hacking and isolated from his coalition partners when he took the gamble of opposing Lord Justice Leveson's proposal to underpin a new independent press regulator with legislation. Unveiling his 2,000-page report, the judge insisted the move was an essential to end \"a culture of reckless and outrageous journalism\". But after agonising for 24 hours since he received the report of the inquiry set up by him 16 months ago, Cameron said he had \"serious concerns and misgivings\" in principle to any statutory interference in the media. He warned: \"It would mean for the first time we have crossed the Rubicon of writing elements of press regulation into law of the land.\" Cameron argued: \"We should think very very carefully before crossing this line,\" warning that parliament for centuries had seen its role as a bulwark of democracy. \"We should be wary of any legislation that has the potential to infringe free speech and the free press.\" But the deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg, took the opposite view, siding with Leveson in saying that a state-backed body was needed to have oversight of self-regulation by the press. Leveson said that proposals from the Press Complaints Commission for a revamped regulator, backed by some but by no means all newspapers, would still amount to the \"industry marking its own homework\". Mark Lewis, the lawyer for the parents of Milly Dowler, accused Cameron of betrayal, reminding him he had promised his response would satisfy the victims of phone hacking and intrusion. Lewis said: \"He called it the victim test; he called it the Dowler test. It looks like he failed his own test.\" The culture secretary, Maria Miller, will meet with victims on Friday, and on Tuesday she will hold a round table with editors of national newspapers and some proprietors to press them to draw up a timetable for a tougher self-regulatory model than the one they had proposed to Leveson. In a subtle proposal designed to win over those fearful of direct state interference in a free press, Leveson proposed that the broadcasting regulator Ofcom should take responsibility for monitoring a new independent voluntary press regulator, organised by the media and capable of imposing fines of up to \u00a31m as well as demanding up-front apologies. Leveson said it was necessary for a body like Ofcom to monitor a revamped PCC to \"reassure the public of its independence\". The purpose of legislation is \"not to establish a body to regulate the press\", he insisted. But he warned that if newspapers were not prepared to join a revamped regulator, despite financial incentives to do so, it would be necessary to force Ofcom to act as a \"backstop regulator\". In an unflinching catalogue of both general and specific acts of press intrusion, Leveson said: \"There have been too many times when, chasing the story, parts of the press have acted as if its own code, which it wrote, simply did not exist. \"This has caused real hardship and, on occasion, wreaked havoc with the lives of innocent people whose rights and liberties have been disdained.\" In the run-up to publication, Cameron had repeatedly promised not to let down the victims of hacking and to implement Leveson so long as it did not propose \"anything that is bonkers\". But since then Cameron has been under sustained pressure from the newspaper industry, and from cabinet colleagues, to oppose any state involvement in media regulation, unless the industry patently failed to embrace Leveson's call for robust, swift and effective self-regulation. The film-maker Ed Blum, himself a victim of hacking, accused Cameron of abandoning those he had pledged to help. \"He's ripped out the heart and soul of the Leveson report and at the same time, some papers tomorrow will call him courageous.\" But Cameron is in danger of finding himself in a minority in the Commons as Clegg took the extraordinary step of making his own statement to MPs, contradicting the prime minister's central judgment, and broadly siding with the Labour leader, Ed Miliband. To the fury of some Conservative MPs, Clegg said: \"Changing the law is the only way to give us all the assurance that the new regulator isn't just independent for a few months or years, but is independent for good.\" Clegg said he had heard nothing to suggest that a better solution can be found than the one proposed by Leveson, adding: \"We need to get on with this without delay.\" He was supported by the Liberal Democrat president, Tim Farron, who said the law, far from representing a Rubicon was little more than a brook. Privately Clegg believes Cameron can yet be persuaded of the need for state oversight of the regulatory power, but needs time to persuade his own backbenchers. Cameron, Clegg and Miliband met to discuss a joint response to the report and, according to Labour, under pressure from Miliband Cameron had said he would allow the culture department to prepare a draft bill on state underpinning of a new regulatory body. But Cameron's spokesman said \"drawing up a bill will only serve to demonstrate how complicated it would be to introduce press laws\". The spokesman added that preliminary work had already been undertaken showing this to be the case. Miliband said he would be calling a vote in the Commons on implementing Leveson by the end of January at the latest, and with Cameron allowing MPs a free vote, the prime minister is currently at risk of losing. Government sources claim that even if they lose a vote, they would need to bring forward a bill, a point contested by Labour and the Lib Dems. The report appears to find unnamed executives of News International guilty of trying to hide the extent of phone hacking at the company. It finds: \"Questions were there to be asked and simple denials should not have been considered sufficient. This suggests a cover-up by somebody and at more than one level.\" Cameron took relief that Leveson issued little criticism of the relations between Cameron and News International, apart from to say that all politicians over the past 30 years had been close to newspaper magnates. Criticism is expressed of the way in which the then culture secretary Jeremy Hunt had allowed perceptions to arise that he was too close to News International during its bid for BSkyB, but the report said he had not behaved improperly. Cameron said Hunt had \"endured a stream of allegations with great dignity. This report confirms something what we on this side of the house knew all along: we were right to stand by him\".",
  "title": "Leveson report: David Cameron refuses to 'cross Rubicon' and write press law",
  "lead": "Lawyer for Milly Dowler's parents says prime minister has 'failed the Dowler test' after rejecting Lord Justice Leveson's recommendation for law-backed regulator",
  "tags": [
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/press-freedom",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/privacy",
    "politics/davidcameron",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/milly-dowler",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/jeremy-hunt",
    "media/pcc",
    "media/leveson-report"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2012/nov/29/david-cameron-refuses-to-write-press-law",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}