{
  "content": "Of all the websites I visit the one I return to most frequently - search engines apart - is Flickr.com, the photo-hosting site. When it was launched four years ago I dismissed it as a place where people were dumping countless family photos that were best left at home for domestic consumption. But that was before users took over and started tagging photos with names such as \"River Thames\", enabling anyone anywhere to see photos on any subject using the search engine once they had uploaded their pics from a digital camera. Out of this a vibrant community developed with tens of thousands of groups formed around special interests ranging from George Bush to Ginkgo trees, full of feedback and global conversations around subjects of mutual interest. As camera phones became more popular, Flickr helped nurture the spread of \"citizen journalism\" with thousands of users uploading pictures of breaking news, including the tsunami in 2004, the London Underground bombs of July 2005 and life in Tibet today. At the weekend it was awash with photos of the London Marathon. Flickr has reinvented photography for the digital age. It has introduced lots of innovations, ranging from daily breakdowns of how many people have been viewing your photos, to geotagging them so that they can be pinpointed on a map anywhere in the world. Throughout this period of strong growth - with billions of photos uploaded - Flickr did not deviate from its love affair with the still photograph. Until last week. On April 9 Flickr lost its uniqueness and its monastic silence was broken by allowing audio/video uploads for paying subscribers (free users can't). True, they are popular with many members, are of a better quality than YouTube and are limited to 90 seconds in length. But that doesn't alter the fact that it has forfeited its special brand and taken the first step towards becoming just another portal for other services. The move generated a lot of initial hostility: one of a number of newly formed groups (\"We Say No to Videos on Flickr\") had gathered over 27,000 members by the weekend. This is a tiny proportion of membership, but it reflects a big shock for members who saw Flickr as a safe haven from the proliferation of sites offering in-your-face videos and anything that might attract extra eyeballs to the site. The aim is to make more money for Yahoo - which bought Flickr in 2005 - by attracting members to Flickr's premium version and thereby enabling it to be more competitive with YouTube (now part of Google), which is still the runaway success of the video revolution. What is puzzling is why Yahoo, as the biggest internet company on the block, thinks it can only compete with YouTube through changing the culture of an acquired subsidiary rather than using the massive leverage of its own site to expand its existing video service. The answer is that corporate dinosaurs find it difficult to lay eggs. One of the interesting things about the so-called web 2.0 revolution is how innovation is driven not by giants such as Yahoo, Google or Microsoft, but by hungry upstarts such as MySpace, Facebook, Flickr and YouTube which subsequently get taken over by the giants. The biggest example is Microsoft. Its energies have been so absorbed by attempts to preserve a flagging corporate desktop monopoly that it has failed to establish a big enough presence on the web where all the action is increasingly taking place. Instead, it wants to buy Yahoo, a company with a very different corporate culture. This proposed blending of oil and water could prove the least successful corporate alliance since Time Warner merged with AOL. Yahoo's attempt to monetise a pristine service such as Flickr, while sad, will be nothing compared with Microsoft's attempt to use Yahoo to re-mould its future. We have been warned. vic.keegan@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Victor Keegan: Corporate dinosaurs kill sites - in a Flickr",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/yahoo",
    "technology/web20",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/myspace",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/microsoft",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/youtube"
  ],
  "lead": "Victor Keegan: Members saw Flickr as a safe haven from the proliferation of sites offering in-your-face videos",
  "id": "technology/2008/apr/17/yahoo.flickr",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}