{
  "content": "Job seekers and entrepreneurs both face an incredibly challenging market today. Yet the job market is also far more accessible than it has ever been \u2013 with more information on people as well as companies publicly available online than ever before. For example, LinkedIn has more than 259 million members in over 200 countries and territories. The ability to find and connect with individuals within companies, or other like-minded entrepreneurs, is unparalleled in history. Interestingly though, the largest CV database on the planet was conceived \u2013 according to LinkedIn co-founder Allen Blue's remarks at the 2013 BSR conference \u2013 as an enabler for people to link up not just with employers, but also with each other as entrepreneurs. As described by Blue, LinkedIn is essentially one big database to enable a new economy, with many entrepreneurs and significantly lowered transaction costs for people to find sympatico business partners. There is a missed opportunity here now, though. An unconnected wire. It relates to the biggest storm ever to be recorded that hit the Philippines, as well as the growing ferocity and frequency of unusual weather events that are amplified by climate change. It relates to the increasing concerns around water scarcity, erosion and topsoil loss, species extinctions, and many other ecological issues that are being documented by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the Intergovernmental Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES). Simply put, the much needed (and currently non-existent) connection is between what are effectively enormous human resources databases, such as LinkedIn, with environmental databases and analytical models for projecting into the future. The opportunity is to bring the IT cloud down to the ground by connecting it with ecological modelling and decision-support tools. This new generation of apps and tools would enable decision-makers to assess the environmental sustainability of various business decisions or new venture options. For example, hooking up environmental information, even in the form of basic apps, could enable engaged people to ask questions about whether the company that they are applying to work for will lead the planet further into \"ecological over-shoot\". People could use a human resources database (like LinkedIn) to ask questions such as: will this job be for a company that is acting on climate change and addressing its emissions? Is this new venture considering the toxicity of raw materials in its consumer goods? Is it embracing renewable energy sources? The connections lie like puzzle pieces on the floor \u2013 available, but not yet clicked together. Big data exists in the environmental domain, in spades \u2013 in the form of a growing set of corporate sustainability reports, climate change projection models, water availability models (such as WRI's Aqueduct), and biodiversity and ecosystem services models (such as the InVESTand the Madingly models). Numerous models now exist for evaluating the structure and function of the ecological systems on which we rely, and these can show which actions undercut these systems and which improve function and resilience. Why not link up and leverage this existing know-how with the human resource and business venture side of the equation? Yet, today, human capital databases exist on their own \u2013 as if human society were not fully embedded within natural systems and not reliant upon natural capital. Many who consider the human side of the economy equation do not know (or think of) the ecological side of the equation \u2013 although they depend on it and work within ecological boundaries. In a world with growing climate change concerns, we need human capital databases to establish clear and clever linkages with natural capital and ecological databases as well as models for simulating the effects of decisions on these natural systems. We need people making decisions about the deployment of financial capital, and use of human capital, to consider natural capital. The opportunity is to hook up the big data about human capital with the big data of natural capital. The cloud would not just connect people to people, but also \u2013 in a one-stop approach \u2013 also link people to information on the potential ripple effects of engaging in a set of business activities. These elements would help us to \"see\" the impacts of our modern industrial goods and services, in environmental as well as social and economic terms. The challenge is that many of these environmental datasets and models are impenetrable to all but a relatively small sliver of specialists. And honestly, they can be dull. Enter the world of games. The work of Games for Change and Gamification.co, for example, offers another key hook up. While big ecological data tends not to be fun (a downer actually), the world of games can make the issues and questions that it raises interesting. So why not engage game developers, app developers, and others to launch a hackathon in which we create new IT pathways for linking human capital databases with natural capital? This set of connections could enable financial capital to perceive of new pathways to flourishing and inclusive economies. Why not have LinkedIn hook up with established environmental and human health databases \u2013 through fun games on Zynga (and many other such) toolbars? Why not link human capital, natural capital and financial capital through gamifying the most serious issues that we face around regenerative economy? Sissel Waage is the director of biodiversity and ecosystems services at BSR This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Become GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox",
  "title": "Could LinkedIn, apps and games revolutionise sustainability?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "sustainable-business/sustainable-business",
    "sustainable-business/technology",
    "sustainable-business/social-media",
    "sustainable-business/climate-change",
    "technology/linkedin",
    "technology/games",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "lead": "Connecting environmental datasets to social networks and games could hasten the path to a new economy",
  "id": "sustainable-business/linkedin-apps-games-environmental-sustainability",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}