{
  "content": "Social network sites know who you are, who you know and what you're interested in. They know what you like to buy and where you live. If they are taken at face value, their extraordinary popularity suggests we're comfortable with our personal data being so freely available. But there lies the rub. We take social network sites at face value - and no more. A closer analysis suggests that the time has come for a radical reappraisal of social networking. It's time, in fact, to think about \"hardwiring\" the law into social networking websites, lest our right to privacy is irreparably devalued. At present, data protection law in Europe allows search engines and website operators to collect, use and share personal information, provided they do so in accordance with a number of principles. The core principle is that the user is told about how their information will be used (for example, in a privacy policy) and that the website operator meets one of several conditions. The one on which website operators most often rely is users' consent. Although you'll see \"opt in\" boxes for email marketing, operators will often rely on \"opt-out\". You are deemed to consent unless you opt-out. If you're a Facebook user and go to your privacy settings, you will see that the default position with your minifeed is that Facebook will publish details to your \"friends\" whenever you change your profile, make a comment on a photo or video, or interact with the site in a number of other ways. You can \"opt-out\" by unticking all the boxes but, for most users, taking the time to check website privacy settings and preferences is the last thing on their minds. But if you don't change these settings, have you really consented? The European Commission's Working Party on Data Protection doesn't think so. \"Using pre-ticked boxes fails to fulfill the condition that consent must be a clear and unambiguous indication of wishes,\" it says. Perhaps, indeed, we have arrived at a tipping point. Take Beacon, an integral part of Facebook's new Social Ads platform. This is a piece of software code which a Facebook partner embeds into its web page - say an online video rental store. If the user rents a video from the partner site, this fact will appear in the user's news feed on Facebook. When Beacon was launched, it let you opt out of this and, in theory, the partner website should let you opt-out as well. Whether that happens in practice is another matter, and you might well sign up to some services which you'd rather your friends, networks or any other third parties (who've signed up to receiving news feeds about you) didn't know about. Following complaints, Facebook changed Beacon to allow users to opt-in. The key issue, then, is how far are you willing to allow service providers to go? Facebook is emblamatic of current trends in data sharing online, but the same technologies are being used by search engines and other social network sites. I am far from saying that we're confronted by a straightforward \"good guy, bad guy\" scenario: the tailored information and social connectivity the likes of Facebook provide their users for free is great. But that we have a decision to make about privacy is undeniable. How, then, should data protection law strike the right balance between sharing personal information and safeguarding an individual's private rights to that data in the web 2.0 world? Two things need to happen. First, we must develop the notion of the \"digital citizen\". The Information Commissioner published research in November which revealed that people now consider protecting their personal information as more socially important than the NHS, national security and the environment. If that's true, the scene is set for the arrival of the digital citizen - the person who accepts responsibility for their online personal information as part of managing his or her digital identity. Secondly, we need to look to the heart of the matter - privacy and consent. We need to be sure that users really understand how their personal information is being used and shared, that they've really consented to it or that its use is essential. To achieve this, the act of giving consent should be coded - hardwired - into websites through ticking the relevant boxes or some equivalent. Hardwiring the law into the web may sound scary, but it's a lot less scary than leaving things as they are. Laurie Kaye is the head of Laurence Kaye (www.laurencekaye.com), a law firm specialising in digital media issues. He writes a blog on digital media law at http://laurencekaye.typepad.com",
  "title": "Let's have another look at privacy and consent",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/medialaw",
    "media/media",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "Social network sites know who you are, who you know and what you're interested in. They know what you like to buy and where you live. If they are taken at face value, their extraordinary popularity suggests we're comfortable with our personal data being so freely available. But there lies the rub.",
  "id": "media/2007/dec/10/digitalmedia.medialaw",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}