{
  "content": "The mother of a talented young dancer who took her own life has demanded action to stop the \"poison\" of self-harming and suicide-promoting blogs spreading online. Sarah Wilson, whose 15-year-old daughter Tallulah died after being hit by a train, called on major online firms to do more to protect children from the most \"insidious aspects of the internet\". She expressed her shock at how easy it was for children to see the material online. Tallulah, from north-west London, was an avid user of the Tumblr website and created a fantasy cocaine-taking character to escape reality, St Pancras coroner's court was told. Her mother said she \"entered a world where the lines between fantasy and reality became blurred. It is every parent's worst nightmare\". Wilson said: \"Our lives will never be the same without Tallulah. We have lost someone more precious than words could ever say \u2013 a beautiful, loving and talented shining star has been stolen from our skies. \"Her sisters and I did everything we could to keep her safe, but she had fallen into a world of nightmares. She was in the clutches of a toxic digital world where in the final few weeks we could no longer reach her.\" Wilson said the likes of Tumblr should do more to protect other vulnerable young people online and to take an active role in \"policing and swiftly removing unsuitable material as some sites already do\". She added: \"I appeal to big brands to withdraw their advertising from those sites who continue to host inappropriate self-harming and suicide-promoting blogs to stop this poison spreading. \"My family has suffered an irretrievable loss and would now appreciate some time to reflect and come to terms with a world eclipsed without Tallulah, but every parent needs to be aware of the dangers of the internet and what their children may be viewing online.\" The inquest jury said in its narrative determination that six days before her death on 14 October 2012, her Tumblr account was deleted at her mother Sarah's request. \"This contained inappropriate images containing self-harming behaviour,\" the jury said. The decision resulted in conflict with Tallulah. \"This site was very important to Tallulah, providing her with a medium to express herself over which she had total control,\" the jury said. The inquest heard that the teenager, once reportedly headhunted by the Royal Ballet School, would go online and post pictures of herself with self-inflicted cuts. A psychiatrist assessed her as being severely depressed in May 2012, but it had been hoped that her mood was \"lifting\". She missed psychiatric appointments in the days before her death. The jury said Tallulah experienced low self-esteem from an early age. \"Her mother is a normal caring parent, who had conflict with her daughter,\" they said. She had difficulties with some girls at school and created an online persona. \"Her mother expressed her concerns and highlighted the dangers of this activity and the possible consequences,\" the jury said. During this period Tallulah started to self-harm, which was noticed by the school nurse. \"It is clear she had a rich interior life, which she guarded fiercely,\" the jury said. It is unclear whether she was depressed at the time that she took her own life, the jury said. A spokesman for Tumblr said: \"Tallulah Wilson and her family are in the thoughts of Tumblr and its employees. Issues of depression and self-harm are extremely challenging, particularly in online environments that encourage self-expression. \"Tumblr has policies to address the most harmful of this content, and we have systems in place to direct users to appropriate resources for getting whatever help they may need. \"We are committed to continually improving our ability to act on self-harm content, and also to keeping Tumblr a positive, supportive environment for those individuals dealing with issues of depression and self-harm.\" A Samaritans spokesman urged anyone who is struggling to cope to contact their helpline on 08457-909090.",
  "title": "Mother of girl, 15, who killed herself condemns 'suicide blogs'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/london",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/tumblr",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Sarah Wilson, who lost her daughter Tallulah, says internet firms must do more to protect children from disturbing material",
  "id": "uk-news/2014/jan/23/tallulah-internet-suicide-blogs",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}