{
  "content": "We're told we're living in the information economy. Data is currency: businesses which collect it and use it well \u2013 to target sales, adverts and more \u2013 will thrive, while those who don't will get left by the wayside. It's a philosophy that's become so uncontroversial it's stated as the obvious, and is the business model of the new internet giants: both Google and Facebook alike rely on advertising for the overwhelming majority of their revenue. Google and Facebook have more data on us than virtually any other organisation \u2013 including governments \u2013 on the planet. The belief in the untapped potential of the profit contained therein was what justified Facebook's amazing valuation: a $38 (\u00a325) share price, adding up to more than 80 times the company's annual earnings (Google trades at about 20 times earnings). We know what's happened since: within three days of their flotation, Facebook's shares lost about 20% of their value. The fallout is just beginning \u2013 shareholders are filing lawsuits, questions are being asked about mobile platforms, and others are pointing to the hubris of the company's executives. These may all be decent explanations \u2013 but perhaps it's worth taking a step back. What if all of this data, all of this information, actually isn't worth that much? Our personal information is valuable to companies because they believe it'll help them sell us stuff more effectively. That's how Amazon picks its recommendations, and how supermarkets target their promotions. So provided data makes selling to us easier and more effective, it's worth something. For Google and Facebook, though, it's not clear that's working out. Google's advertising works at its core through search: advertisers can place their adverts against any word. So a kettle vendor is likely to pick the phrase \"buy kettles\" to place an advert. This system, it turns out, is pretty unbeatable. But the evidence suggests Facebook adverts, which can be targeted at amazingly specific groups of people in tiny areas, don't work nearly so well: one piece of research suggested Google adverts were 10 times more likely to be clicked on than Facebook ones. While Google's revenues are growing \u2013 not a bad feat in the current economy \u2013 the huge amounts of extra data it's accumulating aren't improving its actual ads: the money the company gets for each advert is actually falling. If more data doesn't make these companies more cash, the rationale falls away. Google's adverts make it a huge amount of money, and will continue to do so, but there's no evidence that more user data is making those adverts more effective at generating profit than they already were. Once you start picking holes in the data-as-profit school of thought, the garment keeps fraying: users are getting ever more concerned about privacy, and how their data is used. Big shifts from any major company in privacy policies already attract a backlash. If these become more obviously commercial, these backlashes will likely grow. There's also a problem of abundance. Any economist will tell you that scarcity leads to value: if something's hard to get hold of, people will pay for it. The internet makes collecting and storing data easier than it's ever been. Amazon doesn't need to buy data from other people to know its customers \u2013 it collects it itself. The Guardian knows more about its readers' habits now than ever before. Everyone is collecting the data they need to understand their audience, and to deliver better services and products, so there is a further question for companies \u2013 unlike Facebook \u2013 whose business model relies on selling data to others: why will they need to start buying in more from others than they currently do? Who, exactly, is the buyer? A final, more concrete thought on the value of our personal data comes from supermarket loyalty cards. In the UK, two of the largest supermarkets \u2013 Sainsbury's and Tesco \u2013 offer customers points worth a penny for every pound spent as an exchange for data on their spending. This is the best dataset imaginable for these stores: when and how people shop, how much they spend, what they buy, and which offers they seem to respond to. It comes combined with an advertising opportunity and a direct call to action: customers on whom they have data have opted in to receive offers and vouchers. Data does not get better than this \u2013 and they can value it at less than 1% of those customers' sales. Tesco for a time offered two points (worth 2p) for every pound spent to customers who used its scheme, but soon returned this to one point (1p) per pound. The data simply wasn't worth paying more than that for. The information revolution doubtlessly benefits business and consumers in a huge number of ways, and is reshaping numerous industries \u2013 including, of course, publishing. But just because something is changing the world doesn't mean it's going to generate vast profits. Those betting the farm(ville) on Facebook, or any investment reliant on data in the future generating far more cash than it does today, could easily find themselves losing their shirts.",
  "title": "Facebook's IPO fallout and the problem with the data-as-profit model | James Ball",
  "lead": "James Ball: Excitement about the value of data-gathering fed Facebook's amazing valuation \u2013 but it looks unlikely to be such a goldmine",
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/google",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/ipos",
    "technology/amazon",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "technology/efinance",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/may/25/facebook-ipo-fallout-data-as-profit",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}