{
  "content": "Do this week's \"phone tap\" arrests suggest we have our first Bluesnarfing scandal? Clive Goodman, the News of the World's royal editor, and Glenn Mulcaire who runs a crisis management company, have been charged under RIPA with plotting to intercept communications. That particular piece of legislation is widely drawn, and could encompass a number of alleged actions. Speculation on the supposed details, at this stage, is just that, and of course we shouldn't prejudge. However, suggestions from the PCC indicate that fiddling with communications has become the stock in trade of a certain kind of journalist. So what's going on? Is your phone secure? We may find that if phones have been interfered with, the finger might point at a disgruntled employee within a phone network. We may even find that some foolish individuals have left their voicemail pin codes on the default factory settings - spot the manufacturer and you can often take a stab at the PIN; many common numbers are freely available online, as you might imagine. But we could be looking at an altogether more exciting form of espionage: one with a whacky name. As it's the silly season, we must hope so. A few years back, I worked on a couple of telecoms magazines. It was intermittently interesting - particularly our game of planting AC/DC lyrics and titles into a flurry of online news stories - but a sizeable proportion of the \"news\" we reported was crushingly dull. Joe Bloggs buys stock in John Bloggs. That kind of thing. An exception was anything connected with wireless gizmos, and that was chiefly because as soon as a new protocol or technique was announced, the race to hack it was on. Bluetooth at first seemed to offer few chances for the enterprising bugger. Its short range meant - or so we thought and were told - that you'd have to be sitting right next to a user to get any data at all from their phone or PDA, even if you could overcome any security measures they might have. Try as we might, back in 2001 we couldn't inject much scare into our stories, unless you were scared of someone sitting in your lap. But now, it seems, range isn't an issue. Bluetooth snipers can grab signals from up to a mile away - and the variety of Bluetooth enabled devices around today means it's a target-rich environment. Grabbing basic information - the front-end data that tells you what a device is and who it belongs to - is relatively easy; getting the kind of information we're hearing about today is trickier, but may not be impossible. Here's one possibility. Hands-free kits in many cars, particularly top-end models, feature Bluetooth connectivity between the \"handset\" - which may be the car itself, or a cradle-mounted conventional phone - and an earpiece/microphone. You can dial up friends with a single word; you can even dial your voicemail. The earpiece simply picks up what you say, transmits it to the secure phone, which then dials and connects. The point is that the earpiece isn't a secure device. Now, armed with your Bluetooth sniper you sniff the data sent between headset and phone, and gather sufficient information to clone that headset and imitate the identification signals it sends to the phone. Then you simply wait for the user to leave the car - even for a few moments, at a petrol station for instance - and POW, you snipe in and take the place of the headset. Once this is done you can, at the very least, Bluesnarf the phone, and download all the numbers and contact info stored on the device. You also stand a pretty good chance of being able to access voicemail messages - exactly as this week's bugging story suggests. Fun, eh? I don't know what it is. As soon as I start to imagine Bond-style gadgetry being used in a crime, I don't mind it quite so much. I have a weakness for stainless steel rats, I guess. In a world where the threat of biometric ID cards for all looms large, I like the notion that the scoundrels who today clone phones and hack credit cards - and who can also spoof Bluetooth devices - might one day turn their skills to hacking and subverting a totalitarian infosphere. The News of the World as a forerunner of guerrilla fighters in the war against the machines? Now there's a thought.",
  "title": "Bluetooth bites back",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Frank Fisher: Hacking voicemail is almost too easy. But could we be looking at a more creative form of espionage?",
  "id": "commentisfree/2006/aug/11/bluetooth",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}