{
  "content": "TOOLS Everything to hand \u2013plus the bottle opener This isn't just a box. This is a Coolbox. Nothing to do with keeping your sarnies chilled, this bold container is designed for the modern, tool-wielding type, with built-in Bluetooth speakers, internal LED lights, a tablet rest and USB ports for charging up all your kit. There's even an integrated bottle opener for when you need a break from all that thirsty work. With a handy set of wheels to boot, it has become a runaway success on Indiegogo, where it is open for backing until Thursday (12 March). Supporters can bag a box for \u00a3110, with delivery expected in June. PLAY Move over Barney, the CogniToy has arrived If you thought Barney was the smartest dino, think again. Created by Elemental Path, this internet-connected \"Cognitoy\" can answer questions, tell jokes and spout stories all at the push of its tummy button. What's more, it's creators claim its \"conversation\" level becomes more sophisticated as the child grows up. And that could be handy \u2013 with IBM's supercomputer, Watson, behind its brain you might well want this dino on your pub quiz team when you're older. Having passed its Kickstarter goal, the first Cognitoys could be delivered to backers by November. SCIENCE Check out the radiation in the vegetable rack The latest gadget to be notching up the clicks on Kickstarter is Radium, a tiny Geiger counter that can measure the radiation levels of everything from your home to your Brazil nuts. Hooking the instrument up to your smartphone via a Bluetooth dongle, it apparently \"registers itself as a standard heartbeat device\" while an accompanying app allows you to record and tag the location of your counts. Open for funding for another two weeks, backers will have to be quick to beat the crowd for an early bird price of around \u00a3130. TOYS Build your life around Meccano for grown-ups Do you love construction toys, but don't want to build a Harry Potter castle or pocket-sized tricycle? You are in luck. Recently shown at the Maison&amp;Objet show in Paris, Meccano Home is the brainchild of a team of French designers who have created a grown-up version of the ever-popular kits. Available in the UK from Holloways of Ludlow you can bolt together a table or knock up some storage with colourful components that can be interchanged to freshen up your decor. With an RRP of about \u00a3290 for a coffee table, it won't cost an arm and a leg. SOCIAL MEDIA One in the eye for loved-up Facebookers Aiming to appeal to those with an, admittedly stylish, passive aggressive side is Erica Amatori's Kickstarter project XOXO Hint a series of \"humorous\" cards designed to give your social media-addicted friends an offline message. Tell the loved-up Facebooker \"Your social media posts are sappier than Titanic &amp; Notebook combined\" or remind a screen-fiend to \"Look up every once in a while\". Backers can order an anonymous hint for \u00a33 or so, but it might be easy to spot who sent it. The one without Facebook friends.",
  "title": "Five things we love: from a hi-tech toolbox to grown-up Meccano",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/kickstarter",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/social-media",
    "lifeandstyle/diy"
  ],
  "lead": "Another selection of crowdfunding projects, tech products and generally bright ideas",
  "id": "technology/2015/mar/08/kickstarter-indiegogo-coolbox-cognitoy-xoxo-meccano",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}