{
  "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Thursday June 24 2004 In the report below we say that \"the palace\" had established that Prince William only arrived in Kenya after the Mail's first report was published. In fact, he was already in the country. We say the newspaper had suggested that Prince William was fluent in Swahili. It did not. It said he was learning the language. We also say that it had been established that Prince William's friend, William Craig, had killed a deer. No such claim was made. The Prince of Wales's new communications adviser has vowed to take a \"more determined\" line against inaccurate and damaging newspaper stories after securing an apology from the Mail on Sunday yesterday over allegations that Prince William speared a deer in cold blood. After a battle with Clarence House that has lasted since the original story appeared last August, the newspaper finally was forced to make a rare public admittance that its story - which was picked up around the world and led to a letter-writing campaign against the prince by the pop star Pink - was without foundation. It printed an apology on page two, which said that, having investigated Prince William's complaint \"we are happy to accept his position\" that two stories it wrote about him were wrong and that it should have put the allegations contained in the first article to him in advance of publication. \"We apologise to Prince William.\" The drawn-out saga began on August 10 last year when the Mail on Sunday ran a story on page three, which was trailed on the front, headlined William Kills Bambi Deer with Masai Warrior Spear. While the prince is known to enjoy foxhunting, the palace believed the story was particularly damaging. It detailed how the prince, while visiting Kenya, had slain the dik-dik deer, which it described as being no more than 14 inches tall. It relied on quotes from an 18-year-old Masai warrior, implying he had seen the prince kill the deer. It also featured quotes from animal rights groups, one of which said: \"That animal had a right to live a life in peace.\" The Mail on Sunday did not seek a response from the prince's spokesman before running the story. The palace complained about the story immediately, and was in discussions with the paper during the week after it was published. But in the following Sunday's edition, the MoS ran another story under the headline: \"Oops, I did it again - after slaughtering Bambi, how William shot dead a near-extinct deer by mistake\". In a secondary article it described the \"blood lust that shames Prince William\". In the second article, it was alleged that the prince had killed a rare breed of deer by accident during his gap year in Chile, taking part in an Operation Raleigh project. The story said the prince had been tracking the deer, shot it with a tranquilliser gun, and the animal had subsequently died. It also alleged that the prince, Operation Raleigh and the Chilean government had conspired to cover up the story. Unusually for the palace - which has traditionally turned the other cheek to the tabloid press on the grounds that the most dignified response was no response at all - a detailed and protracted investigation was mounted into the story. It quickly established that the prince had only arrived in Kenya the day after the first article was published; that he did not, as the story suggested, speak fluent Swahili; and that killing a deer with a Masai warrior spear would have required a high degree of skill, not possessed by the prince. Curiously, it was also established that a deer had been killed by a friend of the prince, William Craig, who does speak fluent Swahili. The young Masai warrior denied having alleged to the Mail on Sunday that Prince William had killed the deer. Investigating the second story, it was established that the only time that a deer had been tracked, darted and killed in Chile in the latter part of 2000 was on September 26, a month before Prince William arrived. The deer's death was reported to the Chilean government's conservation department, which suspended all darting operations until May the following year. Despite the mounting evidence that comprehensively undermined the Mail on Sunday's stories, the paper persisted with its defence that the stories were true. It is also understood to have made extensive efforts retrospectively to prove the allegations. Eventually, on March 3 this year, the palace went to the Press Complaints Commission, which brokered the deal that resulted in yesterday's apology. Paddy Harverson, who took over as communications secretary for the Prince of Wales in February after heading the PR team at Manchester United, said the experience had been frustrating. He said: \"We were angry that the Mail on Sunday did not give us a chance to respond to the original allegation, which seemed to us not to be good journalistic practice. \"We were also unhappy that the newspaper did not come to us for a response to the first story - and in the second story, did not run our denial of the first one. That was poor journalism.\" He said the palace, from now on, would take a firm stance against inaccurate stories, in particular those relating to princes William and Harry. He said: \"We are keen to put the record straight when newspapers get it wrong. While we are not going to pick up on every mistake in every story, when a serious, misleading and damaging allegation has been made, we will seek to put it right. It would be wrong to say that we are going to be taking a more aggressive approach, but we are certainly going to take a more determined line against inaccurate journalism.\" Since he took over in February, there have been indications that the palace has decided to take a harder line against tabloid excesses. In April he banned the Sun from taking official pictures of Prince William after it broke the informal agreement between the palace and the media by publishing pictures of the prince on the Swiss ski slopes with a girlfriend. He has also complained about a recent story printed by the Evening Standard in London, headlined Wills Joins Diana Probe, which implied that the prince was going to give evidence to the Scotland Yard investigation into his mother's death. In fact, he has not approached the investigating team, nor has he received an approach.",
  "title": "Prince William forces press apology",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/mailonsunday",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "uk/prince-william",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "The Prince of Wales's new communications adviser has vowed to take a 'more determined' line against inaccurate and damaging newspaper stories after securing an apology from the Mail on Sunday. By Matt Wells",
  "id": "media/2004/jun/14/mailonsunday.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}