{
  "content": "Twitter might not be formally launching its own TV programme, contrary to web gossip, but it is increasingly being explored as a tool for building conversation around shows - as witnessed last night by Channel 4's Surgery Live. Surgery Live covers four operations, including brain surgery and heart surgery, and is fielding questions from the public through Twitter, with the best answered on air. At one point yesterday, #slive was the third most popular hashtag. Three more shows run tonight, Wednesday and Thursday, each presented by Twitter user Krishnan Guru-Murthy. Channel 4's new media commissioner for factual Adam Gee said there has been some experimentation by the Bad Movie Club, for example, and Channel 4 News has also fielded viewers' questions from Twitter, but thinks this was the first time interaction through Twitter has guided the editorial of a TV show so strongly. Surgery Live is backed up by a Facebook group. The TV show and website were produced by Windfall Productions in association with the Wellcome Trust. As part of Channel 4's role in encouraging digital literacy, the show's website includes how-to guides for Twitter and Facebook. \"We did consider using Facebook status updates or texting, but they wouldn't quite allow for the kind of networked conversation in a global, open way that Twitter does,\" said Gee. \"It's easily accessible, and actually the discipline of 140 characters is useful because it encourages crafted, contributions and not rambling messages. The idea was that this would encourage a networked conversation around the show.\" Twitter has been an informal backchannel for live TV and events as long as it has been running - football matches, Wimbledon, conferences, the G20 protest - and, whatever niche interest show is on, there always seems to be someone in your network also watching it. It's interesting to remember that a Twitter module is included on the soon-to-be-released Intel web TV widget, and perhaps a more formal implementation would provide a less obvious but more lucrative form of revenue for Twitter by partnership with TV stations and their advertisers. Tonight: Brain surgery to remove a tumour, while the patient is awake.",
  "title": "Channel 4 uses Twitter at the cutting edge of live surgery...",
  "lead": "Twitter is increasingly being explored as a tool for building conversation around shows - as witnessed last night by Channel 4's Surgery Live. By Jemima Kiss",
  "tags": [
    "media/channel4",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/television",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/pda/2009/may/26/channel4-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}