{
  "content": "It's the near future and the planet is in crisis. Unheeded warnings of an impending oil shortage have become reality. This was the premise of World Without Oil, an alternate reality game (ARG), which asked players to react to a plausible vision of the future and find ways in which to solve it. The aim, says the game's California-based creator Ken Eklund, was to help people get ready, \"if not for this crisis, then for something similar. We wanted to launch a cooperative discourse on the web, focused on a serious social issue,\" he says. ARGs have frequently been used to promote TV programmes, games, films and other products, or else have had their costs absorbed by the sale of supporting merchandise. When World Without Oil launched in April 2007, it broke new ground by using the genre to simulate a real-world problem rather than spreading marketing buzz. Funded by America's Corporation for Public Broadcasting and presented by Independent Television Service (ITVS), it highlighted the genre's potential for use as an educational or change-making tool. \"It was like purposefully putting yourself in panic mode,\" says World Without Oil player Chantalle Draycott, 22, an executive assistant from Toronto, Canada. \"It's one thing to play a game and pretend that it's real, but quite another to actually see it staring you in the face.\" Playing to your strengths An ARG is an interactive narrative in which players work together to solve puzzles and co-ordinate activities in the real world and online, using websites, GPS tracking devices, telephone lines, newspaper adverts and more. All of which sounds like it must require even more effort and resolve than a bank holiday gym session, but ARGs employ media - text messages, blogs, social networking sites, video-sharing - that many people already use on a daily basis. \"We find the people who play these games range from teenagers right up to people in their 50s,\" says Hazel Grian of Bristol-based Licorice Film, producer and director of new ARG The Sky Remains, in which players join a fictional detective agency and hunt for hidden messages scattered across the globe. \"It's something you can do while you're doing other things, using skills you've already got.\" Eklund believes this accessibility is what gives ARGs their appeal. \"It can be very easy to get started - you just follow a story online,\" he says. \"It's possible for complete newcomers to begin contributing immediately, which is rare and wonderful in games. It will be unfortunate if ARG development follows the path that electronic games have, and makes games only for gamers.\" Alternate reality gaming kicked off in 2001 with The Beast, a marketing tool for the Steven Spielberg film Artificial Intelligence. And with high-profile commercial endeavours such as I Love Bees, a promotion for Halo 2 that ran in 2004, and TV tie-in The Lost Experience in 2006, ARGs have frequently been associated with big brand payoffs. \"All broadcasters are looking into this now,\" says Grian. \"With Torchwood, Lost, 24; they're all doing it. Alternate reality gaming started as a way for broadcasters to engage their audiences.\" But this is about to change, says Andrea Phillips, an ARG writer and producer who was part of the team at London-based developer Mind Candy, which produced the game Perplex City - an interactive treasure hunt funded by the sale of puzzle cards. \"A lot of people in entertainment are seeing the value of using alternate reality gaming to tell stories as their own creative form, not just as a buzzy viral way to get more eyeballs.\" Phillips says the key appeal of these games lies in the art of crafting a collaborative narrative. \"Collaboration in storytelling is an old tradition, even older than print. All our stories are ultimately descended from this sort of back-and-forth oral tradition,\" she says. \"So you could say we're working to reclaim something we lost hundreds of years ago when we first started recording narratives with pen and paper, and later with film.\" World Without Oil helped to spark interest in the potential for these storytelling devices to be seen as more than marketing vehicles. \"In the not-for-profit sector, ARGs can be a great platform for raising awareness in a realistic way,\" says Siobhan Thomas, a research fellow at the University of East London and ARG design lecturer at London Southbank University. Teach us a story \"The fact that the genre is growing up is exciting. The opportunities are limitless. You can easily see how they might be used in a training setting in business, or in a medical environment to teach doctors how to cope with large-scale crises. What will be really exciting is when biometric information can be more easily integrated into gameplay. For instance, a real-world game that delivers challenges based on heart rate or other physical criteria.\" But, Thomas warns, it's essential that the issues relating to real-world gameplay are given due consideration. \"Often in the urgency to create great gameplay, it's easy to overlook privacy issues like protecting personal data. Using your railcard as a game piece is all well and good, as long as you have a good idea what's going to happen to the data recorded. This issue is becoming increasingly serious as more and more sites are sharing data.\" And these games are not without their commercial problems, says Tanya Krzywinska, convenor of Brunel University's MA in Digital Games Theory and Design. \"I expect that the format will be increasingly of interest to performance artists, as well as having a lot of potential for educational purposes,\" she says. But Massively Multiplayer Online games and digital games are likely to hold on to the lion's share of the market. \"They are the larger market and will remain so, because you can play these for any amount of time. An ARG is more of an event - it has to be carefully staged.\" Eklund, though, is optimistic. \"Since World Without Oil, there has been a flood of interest in ARGs as education or activism tools. There's tremendous room to explore new gameplay. More storytellers are going to enter this space.\"",
  "title": "ARG is an alternative way to play with real-world problems",
  "lead": "What began as a marketing tool has now become a lot more useful: playing with alternate realities can solve real problems",
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/games",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2008/jul/24/games.internet",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}