{
  "content": "The BBC's Andrew Marr will be \"hobbled\" in his role as a frontline BBC interviewer because politicians and celebrities will refuse to answer awkward personal questions from now on, a senior Labour MP has warned. Chris Bryant, the former Europe minister, said Marr could not expect political leaders or anyone else to reply to his questions about their private lives after it was revealed last week that he had taken out a superinjunction to prevent reporting of an alleged extramarital affair. Bryant said: \"People will certainly look askance at him. He is not going to be able to ask the personal questions without people, including politicians, sticking their tongues out at him and saying 'superinjunction' and refusing to answer.\" Marr returns to the screen today only five days after admitting that he had taken out the superinjunction. He will be interviewing both David Cameron and Nick Clegg before Thursday's local elections, and those to the devolved assemblies in Scotland and Wales, as well as the referendum on changing the way MPs are elected. In one television interview with Gordon Brown, Marr repeatedly pushed the then prime minister about his imperfect eyesight. Referring to the interview, Bryant said yesterday: \"Andrew asked some very personal questions to Gordon Brown about his eyesight and whether he took drugs. I don't think he will be able to do that sort of thing again.\" The former prime minister was furious about the personal line of questioning and made his views known as he left the studio. \"Andrew Marr is a very personable fellow but this does raise questions about his credibility and I am sure the BBC will be thinking about this,\" Bryant added. A journalist friend of Marr said this weekend it was \"business as usual\" as far as the presenter was concerned, with the same rigorous questioning expected on air, and the same respect accorded to guests. A BBC news spokesman confirmed that the corporation shares this attitude. \"The superinjunction is a private matter for Andrew. From the point of view of BBC News, we have seen no evidence whatsoever that Andrew's journalism has been compromised in any way.\" But some commentators have made comparisons with the ignominious departure of Angus Deayton, longtime chair of the topical quiz Have I Got News For You. Deayton left the show abruptly following tabloid revelations about his private life involving alleged criminal drug-taking. Asking political guests about their own misdemeanours became difficult for the comedian and actor, and Deayton has only recently returned to the BBC as the host of a Radio 4 game show. While the Andrew Marr Show focuses on parliamentary and policy issues, recent years have seen Marr pose questions about the vexed personal lives of several prominent guests. When John Prescott went on the show at the end of his career as a parliamentary MP, Marr referred explicitly to the affair the deputy prime minister had been revealed to have conducted with a colleague. \"Biggest regret probably personal rather than political over the last 10 years?\" the presenter suggested. \"Yes, well, that was a disappointment and I, you know, I let people down, and I think I've made it clear...\" responded Prescott. Last September Marr quizzed Ed Miliband about the impact of the battle for the leadership and his defeat of his brother David on his wider family. When Miliband underlined his love for his elder brother, Marr pressed the point. \"He looked pretty shattered, I have to say, after it all. He must be pretty despondent about all of this?\" Miliband replied that of course his brother was disappointed, but had shown \"amazing generosity\". \"And what about your mother?\" asked Marr. \"Is she cross with you for doing this, or is she just pleased?\" Miliband replied that she was \"relieved that the contest is over, put it that way. She's certainly not cross.\" Similarly, when the foreign secretary William Hague was prompted to deny publicly rumours that he was having an \"improper relationship\" with a male aide and went on to reveal that his wife Ffion had suffered several miscarriages, Marr raised the issue on the show with one of Hague's cabinet colleagues, education secretary Michael Gove. Gove replied: \"I feel admiration for the dignity with which he has always handled himself. There have been all sorts of attempts in the past to throw stuff at him, not least when he was leader.\" Marr is said to be aware that several Sunday newspapers are chasing more details of the alleged affair with a female political journalist.",
  "title": "Andrew Marr superinjunction 'dents credibility as interviewer'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/andrewmarr",
    "law/superinjunctions",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/bbc",
    "law/law",
    "media/television",
    "politics/chris-bryant"
  ],
  "lead": "Politicians and celebrities will refuse to answer BBC veteran's difficult questions, says Labour MP Chris Bryant",
  "id": "media/2011/apr/30/andrew-marr-superinjunction-dents-credibility",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}