{
  "content": "Iain Dale, one of the few British bloggers to build a career on the back of his online musings, is moving from the world of new media (Iain Dale's Diary) to old, launching a magazine this week that will appeal to his fellow political anoraks. Total Politics, backed by Tory benefactor Michael Ashcroft, will be sent to every elected official in the land - from MPs to local councillors - giving it a controlled circulation of 23,000, but it will also be available on newsstands and in some book chains. Dale hopes it will carve out a niche despite operating in a specialised field that is already well served by the Spectator and the New Statesman, which only sell around 100,000 copies a week between them. The irony of an online pioneer embracing print, a dying medium according to internet evangelists, is not lost on Dale, although he points out he was writing for newspapers long before he starting blogging. 'I've always done things for the mainstream media, and I don't agree with the fundamentalists who say that because I blog I should stop doing that.' In any case, the net will form a central part of the new Total Politics project. There will be a huge online resource behind the magazine, with a database of political facts and figures. 'If you want to know who was Home Secretary in 1848 you will be able to find out,' Dale says. There will also be specialist blogs on three subjects (local government, political campaigning and public affairs), and contributors will include the London School of Economics' Tony Travers, cabinet minister Hazel Blears and Tory MP Eric Pickles. Based in part on the American publication Campaigns and Elections, it will deliberately follow a more narrow agenda than its rivals, eschewing their arts and culture, Dale says. 'They do a lot more than politics. That is not our market.' Advertisers, he argues, will be reaching a valuable target audience, albeit a small one, and he says some major corporations - including Norwich Union, eBay and Channel 4 - have booked space in the first issue. Even so, it is difficult to imagine Arianna Huffington, the American establishment grandee whose Huffington Post site helped make the political weather during the recent Democratic primaries, launching a print product. Dale concedes that British blogging in general, and political bogging in particular, is way behind the US. 'I think blogs as a phenomenon are on a plateau at the moment,' he says. 'Readership is growing but I don't see any great innovation. I see the mainstream media organisations embracing blogging and doing it quite well, eclipsing them in some areas. I'm really disappointed there have not been five or six other people that have built a mass readership. There are only four blogs [Dale's own, plus PoliticalBetting, ConservativeHome and Guido Fawkes] that have done that, and there's a huge gap between the four of us and the next 10.' Barack Obama's campaign was funded in part by online contributions, and the internet helped galvanise support for an unlikely victory, but a similar phenomenon will never take place in the UK, he predicts. 'That's not going to happen - partly because the sheer size of the US, and partly because its political system lends itself better to blogging.' The major parties have completely failed to learn any lessons from the American experience, he adds, claiming that the Conservatives have quietly shelved a report by ConservativeHome's Tim Montgomerie, who spent six weeks in the US studying how American parties use the internet. '[The Tories] have done nothing with it. Their site is completely static and there's nothing on the [main three political parties'] websites that encourages anyone to interact.' He says David Davis's decision to force a byelection represents a rare opportunity to harness the power of the internet, as Davis runs a uniquely populist campaign on a single issue. 'Because it's not being backed by the Tories, there is an opportunity to do an Obama-style campaign,' he says; but unlike their US counterparts, Britain's amateur bloggers have simply failed to break enough big stories of late. Some say Dale's own blog has run out of steam, but Total Politics has already secured a scoop, landing an exclusive interview with Gordon Brown. 'It's a publisher's dream come true because it give you instant credibility,' says Dale. 'He talked about the fact that Parliament isn't the forum for national debate it once was. He wasn't dismissive of Parliament, but he was sceptical [about its role],' conceding that think tanks or pressure groups now made the intellectual running on the great issues of the day. 'His view seems to be: \"That's the way it is, and I'm not particularly inclined to try and change it.\"' The first issue also features an interview with Lynton Crosby, the Australian political consultant credited with masterminding election wins for the Liberal party down under, and saving the Conservative party from electoral meltdown in the last election, when Michael Howard was leader. The title has already caused controversy in Westminster, largely because of Ashcroft's involvement. Labour backbencher Peter Kilfoyle tabled an early day motion earlier this year noting Ashcroft's involvement and calling on MPs to 'reject the free copies which will be sent to them in the near future'. It has been signed by nearly 40 MPs, much to Dale's displeasure. 'I haven't commented on this before. But I was very disappointed in Peter Kilfoyle. I regarded him as a friend and I helped him get a publishing deal last year. All is fair in love and politics, but I would have expected to him to phone me.' The two men haven't spoken since. 'We will be judged on what we produce,' Dale says, insisting the title will remain studiously impartial - despite his own background as a 'fairly well known' Conservative - with coverage focused on the process of politics rather than ideological battles or personalities. 'The one thing that unites every politician is the desire to be re-elected, and if you can help them achieve that, they will read you.' With an advertising downturn looming, it is not a good time to launch a new magazine, and Dale's last business venture (the internet political TV channel 18 Doughty Street) broadcast for the last time in November 2007, just over a year after launch. But with wealthy backers like Ashcroft on board, Total Politics may have a better chance of succeeding. The competition New Statesman Owners Geoffrey Robinson and Mike Danson Editor designate Jason Cowley Politics Labour Frequency Weekly Circulation 26,000 The Spectator Owners The Barclay brothers Editor Matthew D'Ancona Politics Conservative Frequency Weekly Circulation 75,000 Standpoint Owners Backed by numerous investors including shipping magnate Alan Bekhor Editor Daniel Johnson Politics Right wing Frequency Monthly; just launched Circulation Print run of 30,000 Prospect Owners Peter Hall and George Robinson Editor David Goodhart Politics Centrist Frequency Monthly Circulation 26,000",
  "title": "James Robinson: Westminster's blog pioneer turns to the printed word",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "politics/politics",
    "media/iain-dale"
  ],
  "lead": "Iain Dale is launching a political magazine on the back of his online success. By James Robinson",
  "id": "technology/2008/jun/22/blogging.internet",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}