{
  "content": "Australia's communications minister has called for a police investigation into claims by an Australian newspaper that News Corporation instructed hackers to damage the business of three rival pay-TV firms in the country. The minister, Stephen Conroy, said allegations that the News Corp-owned software company NDS engaged in a \"dirty tricks\" campaign to undermine its rivals were serious and should be referred to the police. The Australian Financial Review reported on Tuesday that NDS employed a unit of ex-police officers \u2013 dubbed Operational Security \u2013 in the mid-1990s to pirate the smart cards of rival broadcasters Austar, Optus and Foxtel, in a bid to clear the way for News Corp to control Australia's lucrative pay-TV market. However, News Corp's Australian unit, News Limited, strenuously denied the claims in a statement on behalf of NDS released late on Wednesday. \"The story is full of factual inaccuracies, flawed references, fanciful conclusions and baseless accusations which have been disproved in overseas courts,\" said News Limited in the statement. The Australian Financial Review editor-in-chief, Michael Stutchbury, said the newspaper fully stands by its report. News Limited declined to comment further when contacted by the Guardian. Australian media has been rocked by the claims, which follow similar allegations about the conduct of NDS in the UK broadcast by BBC1's Panorama programme on Monday. The claims in Australia stem from a huge cache of 14,000 emails obtained by the Australian Financial Review and alleged to have originated from the computer of Ray Adams, the former police officer who was employed as the UK head of security for NDS from 1996 to 2002. It is alleged that NDS operated a piracy unit in Australia, called Operation Security, and a similar body in the UK, dubbed the House of Ill Compute (THOIC), which was apparently run by the hacker Lee Gibling. Gibling claims he was paid up to \u00a360,000 a year by NDS to facilitate the alleged piracy of News Corp's pay-TV rival in the UK, ONdigital, which was owned by ITV firms Granada and Carlton before it collapsed due to operating difficulties in March 2002. NDS said it had paid Gibling to track and catch hackers and pirates. The allegations cast further doubt on whether News Corp meets the \"fit and proper\" test required to run a broadcaster in Britain. It emerged earlier this month that the UK broadcasting regulator Ofcom has set up a unit called Project Apple to establish whether News Corp's deputy chief operating officer James Murdoch is a \"fit and proper\" person to sit on the board of BSkyB and whether News Corp should be allowed a controlling stake in the pay-TV giant. Currently BSkyB is 39.1% owned by News Corp. A spokesman for Ofcom said on Wednesday: \"We will consider all relevant evidence as part of our ongoing duty to be satisfied that persons are fit and proper. We are not, however, going to provide a detailed running commentary on which specific pieces of evidence we may or may not be assessing.\" The BBC said on Monday that there was no evidence that James Murdoch has any knowledge of the alleged campaign.",
  "title": "Australian minister wants News Corp hacking claims investigated",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/news-corporation",
    "media/mediabusiness",
    "media/media",
    "media/television",
    "australia-news/australia-news",
    "world/world",
    "media/rupert-murdoch",
    "technology/hacking"
  ],
  "lead": "Communications minister wants police to look into accusations News Corp software firm NDS engaged in 'dirty tricks'. By Josh Halliday",
  "id": "media/2012/mar/28/australian-minister-news-corp",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}