{
  "content": "Junior civil servants dealing with the records of 25 million child benefit claimants were not given the official instructions on how to share the data with the rest of Whitehall, the Guardian has learned. A manual which laid down strict rules on how Revenue &amp; Customs should safeguard the information was not widely distributed because it was thought to contain too much sensitive information to be handed out to 90,000 civil servants. Instead, only a few senior civil servants had access. The chancellor, Alistair Darling, will have to announce a substantial tightening of procedures in the wake of a highly critical report to be published shortly into the worst loss of confidential data in Whitehall's history. A statement is expected on Monday. The loss of two password-protected computer discs containing the names, addresses, bank numbers and national insurance numbers of 7.2 million families occurred when a junior civil servant downloaded the entire child benefit database from the central computer and sent the details by unregistered and unrecorded post to the National Audit Office. The Guardian was told it has cost \u00a32m in postage alone to send 7.2m letters warning families that they should consider changing their bank passwords and pin numbers to prevent fraud. The Revenue &amp; Customs internal website - used as a reference book for all procedures by 90,000 staff - contains only a general requirement for confidentiality, and instructions on the need of a risk assessment when information is handed over to a third party outside Whitehall. The demand for a tightening up of rules for sharing information is said to be one of the main points in an interim report by Kieran Poynter of PriceWaterhouse Coopers, the private auditors. Ministers initially tried to blame the fiasco on the junior civil servant but the interim report is said to paint a much more complex procedural picture, with instructions and requests required to go to EDS, the private computer firm running the child benefit database, and back down to staff before a decision on releasing information is made. Darling has also sanctioned two other inquiries. The Independent Police Complaints Commission was asked to investigate the circumstances surrounding the disappearance of the discs. Sir Gus O'Donnell, the cabinet secretary, has been asked to prepare a full report for Gordon Brown on security measures to protect data across Whitehall. The Metropolitan police are still trying to find the discs. Darling admitted the loss of the data last month, telling MPs: \"Senior management have instructed that no information is to be downloaded from computers in this way without the authority of a very senior member of the Revenue &amp; Customs,.\" The child benefits blunder comes at a sensitive time for the government, which is determined to establish a huge database for 60 million people with the introduction of ID cards. A survey released by Symantec yesterday shows that six out of 10 people do not trust the government or private companies with their personal information. The survey was undertaken by Ipsos MORI and says some 62% of respondents feel that their personal data held by government departments is at risk. \u00b7 This article was amended on Thursday December 20 2007. The information about child benefit claimants contained on two missing discs was not encrypted, as we said in the article above. We should have said instead that the data was password-protected. This has been corrected.",
  "title": "Child benefit workers kept out of loop on data security",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "society/child-benefit",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/politics",
    "politics/economy",
    "society/society",
    "society/children",
    "society/policy",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/immigration",
    "society/benefits"
  ],
  "lead": "Junior civil servants dealing with the records of 25 million child benefit claimants were not given the official instructions on how to share the data with the rest of Whitehall, the Guardian has learned",
  "id": "uk/2007/dec/15/immigrationpolicy.economy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}