{
  "content": "The information commissioner has launched an investigation after Virgin Atlantic confirmed that an employee passed private flight details of about 70 celebrities \u2013 including Princess Beatrice and Madonna's children \u2013 to a global picture agency. Virgin Atlantic called in the UK's data protection watchdog after it confirmed that travel details for Sienna Miller, Russell Brand and dozens of other celebrities had been leaked to London-based Big Pictures. In a statement on Wednesday, Virgin Atlantic said it had found no evidence that the breaches went beyond one employee. The airline said in a statement: \"Following the allegations in the press in April, we voluntarily contacted the Information Commissioner's Office and have fully assisted with their enquiries. \"Our internal investigation found no evidence that this was anything other than an isolated incident relating to a single member of staff who is no longer with the business. We continue to treat the security of customer information extremely seriously and apologise to the passengers affected.\" A spokesman for the airline declined to comment further. Both the Information Commissioner's Office and the Leveson inquiry into press ethics are now examining the leaks. The Virgin Atlantic employee responsible for the travel detail leaks resigned after they were found to have tipped off Big Pictures about the whereabouts of various celebrities and public figures. Harry Potter actor Daniel Radcliffe, ex-England manager Glenn Hoddle, comedian Sacha Baron Cohen and presenter Jeremy Clarkson are among the well-known public figures named in tip-offs to Big Pictures. The ICO said on Wednesday that its inquiry into the affair was ongoing. The body is understood to have received written evidence from both Virgin Atlantic and the Guardian. The Leveson inquiry has also received evidence on the leaks after they were described by the Hacked Off campaign as evidence that \"data mining, blagging and other forms of trade in private information is not historic\". \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\". \u2022 To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook.",
  "title": "Information commissioner to investigate Virgin Atlantic privacy leak",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/news-photography",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/magazines",
    "business/virginatlantic",
    "business/theairlineindustry",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "lead": "Airline calls in watchdog after confirming employee passed celebrities' private flight details to picture agency. By Josh Halliday",
  "id": "media/2012/jun/07/information-commissioner-investigate-virgin-atlantic-privacy-leak",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}