{
  "content": "Virgin Media is planning to launch a mobile video-on-demand service as its mobile phone business looks to turn itself into the cable network's \"third screen\" in an attempt to attract customers. To try to persuade more of the country's 4m cable households to sign up to its Virgin Mobile service, Virgin Media is also planning to launch its first BlackBerry-style email device and join the host of other networks that allow users to send and receive updates from social networking site Twitter. The company is preparing to announce its second quarter results today, which are expected to show that it has persuaded more than 50,000 more people to sign mobile phone contracts over the last three months. And Graeme Oxby, Virgin Mobile's managing director, has set his sights firmly on integrating the content available through Virgin Media's set-top box and on its broadband portal more closely with mobile devices. \"We are finally getting ready for the bigger push around what we think is the next big step,\" he said. \"What we call the 'third screen'. We have customers using fast broadband and customers watching TV. How do we bring that to life on the mobile phone?\" \"We have done some [mobile video] so that we know it works and people like it, but actually getting to video on demand, which is more a world of pause, rewind and resume rather than just being able to download, is where it gets very interesting.\" Virgin Mobile gave an indication of the direction in which the company, which was merged with cable operators Telewest and NTL to form Virgin Media more than three years ago, plans to go with its June television advert, which showed a man using his phone on a train and finding himself flung into a gig then a cinema and finally a computer game. The idea is to make Virgin Mobile a route to access Virgin Media's content as the mobile business focuses all its attentions on getting more contract customers, moving far away from being a provider of pay-as-you go phones. During its 10-year history, the company has tried television on mobile phones before, launching the ill-fated Lobster phone, which was not a hit with consumers. But Oxby is adamant that video on demand is not all about merely pumping broadcast television on to a phone. \"Long- form TV on your mobile may never quite make it, that's not to say you would not experiment with it, but short-form works very well. We have a strong sense that certain elements of video on demand will work well on a mobile,\" he said. \"We are looking at how do you make [a mobile phone] more connected to an overall Virgin Media experience.\" \"Before too long we will have common access to your Virgin Media email and then video on demand will come after that. Sooner rather than later.\" Virgin Media, meanwhile, is working with Universal on an all-you-can-hear broadband music service and there is also a possibility of adding a mobile element to the service so that users can upload tracks to their phones. \"A world where you pay for it once and can view it on whatever platform you like is a great place to go to and something that is very interesting for us,\" said Oxby.",
  "title": "Virgin Media to launch mobile video service",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/telecoms",
    "media/virginmedia",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "technology/broadband",
    "technology/blackberry",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/television",
    "technology/email",
    "media/video-on-demand"
  ],
  "lead": "Video on demand and BlackBerry-style email device planned to persude cable users to sign up to Virgin Mobile services",
  "id": "business/2009/aug/06/virgin-media-looks-at-mobile-video-on-demand",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}