{
  "content": "One of the joys of Rupert Murdoch having joined Twitter is that we're able to glimpse the real Rupert and the reason he was nicknamed the Dirty Digger. In the light of his describing hacking victims as scumbag celebrities it's as well to remind us of the day he appeared before MPs to say: \"This is the most humbling day of my life.\" So it's fair to ask: was his apology for the illegal and unethical actions of his News of the World journalists sincere after all? I suppose he could have been shooting from the hip (or the lip), not realising that these \"scumbags\" had suffered outrageously from intrusion into their private lives. But my guess is that once that fact is pointed out he wouldn't give a damn, even if he was prevailed upon to issue an anodyne, and utterly insincere, apology at some stage. In truth, his tweet was a revelation of the ruthless and unrepentant Murdoch, the man who spent 30 years either excusing News of the World excesses or simply ignoring them. After all, in spite of all that its reporters and executives had done, he has admitted to being panicked into closing the paper. Consider his breathtaking cynicism. Murdoch's company, News Corporation, lives off celebrities. They star in 20th Century Fox movies and they appear on Fox TV. He mixes with them. Meanwhile, his popular newspapers feed off them in a different way, using them as sales fodder. It matters not to him how they are portrayed, nor how articles about them are obtained. Now we know why. He thinks they are scumbags. Well, humble man, I guess it takes one to know one. Good luck with the News Corp AGM when scumbag investors ask pertinent questions about your company and then vote against you and your board. Not that it will unseat you of course. You have the voting shares tied up. It's great to live in a free market when it's tilted in one's favour, isn't it? But this kind of insult could yet rebound. We're all scumbags now. So I call on all the scumbags of the world - celebrities, readers, movie watchers, satellite TV payers, investors, journalists - to unite and throw off the shackles of the great media mogul. Boycott all that he owns.",
  "title": "Scumbags of the world, unite - you have nothing to lose but Murdoch's chains",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/rupert-murdoch",
    "media/news-corporation",
    "technology/twitter",
    "film/20th-century-fox",
    "media/fox",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/sun",
    "media/new-york-post"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade believes Rupert Murdoch's intemperate tweet about hacking victims offers a glimpse of the man's real view of people",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2012/oct/15/rupert-murdoch-news-corporation",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}