{
  "content": "During yesterday's excellent conference Private data, Open Government, which was held by the information commissioner, Richard Thomas, in London, there was a fascinating example of how the human mind can be drawn to a fallacy because of an appealing image. Thomas, who leaves his post this summer, said he felt that the instinct to collect random and vast amounts of personal data was on the wane in government. He then added that a member of his staff used the analogy of the expanding haystack to capture the futility of amassing more and more information: the larger the haystack, goes the logic, the more difficult it is to find a needle. The haystack was referred to several times afterwards, before Peter Fleischer, Google's global privacy commissioner, quietly made the point that the scale of a database no longer had any relevance and that we should take no comfort from the idea that masses of data somehow protected privacy. Fleischer, an exceptionally cool and logical advocate for Google, pointed out that the web consisted of a trillion different pages with3bn being added every day. Google could find any one page in milliseconds. He asked the audience at the QEII centre to consider what that would mean for privacy once visual recognition technology had been perfected, as it certainly will be in a few years' time. A face, he said, could be found in a split second anywhere in the country by a network of visual recognition cameras. It was one of the most important points of the day. Forget haystack analogies. Size doesn't matter anymore. Fleischer forces us not just to think about what is possible today or the inclinations of our government in 2009 \u2013 but about the technologies of the future, to say nothing of the temptations offered to governments in a few years' time. He gets it and so does Matthew Taylor of the Royal Society of the Arts (RSA), who was also on the panel and kept on reminding the audience that we are merely a transitional generation. There is a real life analogy that shows the silent development of surveillance technology and that is the recent adaptation of traffic cameras to read car number plates, which has increased state surveillance without anyone noticing. Without parliamentary consent and with very little debate, the Association of Chief Police Officers instigated a network of Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras that now covers the entire country and stores people's travel data for five years. ANPR also allows the tracking of particular \"tagged\" vehicles in real time, which, for instance, is how the police stay on top of climate change protesters without following them physically. What we should remember is how quickly the technology changed and how easily we accepted the idea that the state could have access to our movements in real time and retain records of our journeys. Only a few years ago this idea would have been thought impossible technologically and utterly unacceptable socially. We must guard against the hostages we are giving to the near future. People may argue, as Jack Straw did yesterday and Jonathan Myerson did in an unimaginative, rather simplistic, article last week, that they don't mind the government retaining their DNA for as long as it likes. Yet they have no concept of the technological advances just a little way down the road, or of the kind of people who may be in power. What if the BNP was to take control of a DNA database that could be used to decide who was Jewish or Muslim? The technology to determine race from DNA samples is pretty much there: a few refinements are all that is necessary to get an exact idea of someone's racial profile. The same applies to the rash of CCTV cameras, which so many regard as an aide to law and order (especially the BNP), despite senior police officers repeatedly saying the benefits are wildly exaggerated. CCTV may indeed provide people with a sense of security but let us just imagine a moment when the police begin to argue that the cameras should be linked up to keep track of those on the sex offences register, terror suspects and animal rights agitators. How long would it be before legitimate protesters are tracked, as they are today by ANPR? How long before total surveillance of people's movements? Just a few years will be the answer if we continue to believe that the CCTV cameras we allow police and local councils to place in all our public spaces, pubs, cinemas and restaurants have a static capability that will never be developed or enhanced. What we need is not comforting, complacent analogies but a proper understanding of the pace of development as well as codified legal principles that will carry us through this unique moment in human history. We should listen not to the Straws or Myersons of this world but to the Fleischers \u2013 because they tell us how the world really is and how it will be.",
  "title": "Privacy is not a needle in a haystack | Henry Porter",
  "lead": "Henry Porter: It is worryingly easy to access personal information \u2013 no matter how much of it is stored in a single database",
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "world/surveillance",
    "world/protest",
    "politics/freedomofinformation",
    "news/information-commissioner",
    "uk/police",
    "politics/jackstraw"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/henryporter/2009/may/14/privacy-internet-government-database",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}