{
  "content": "The Society of Editors has lashed out at Labour MP Clive Soley for demanding a clampdown on newspapers' dealings with young people, saying that additional laws would infringe freedom of expression. Mr Soley told MediaGuardian.co.uk that he wants legal reforms to prevent newspapers from offering money to underage children to talk about their sexual lives. His comments came in the wake of the press complaints commission's ruling over newspaper payments to child witnesses following the trial of Canadian teacher Amy Gehring who was accused, and acquitted, of having sex with her pupils. Bob Satchwell, the director of the society, says the ruling proves that self-regulation in the newspaper industry works and additional laws would undermine freedoms. \"The PCC investigation shows that self regulation is working and that editors already take their responsibilities in court cases, and especially their dealings with young people, very seriously. \"Clive Soley is calling for more new laws where there is no proven need. It is easy to condemn and pass new laws. It is equally easy in so doing to undermine ordinary people's rights to free expression and their right to know. The law often has much wider impact than its original worthy intention. \"Editors are well aware that there can be potential problems. Their code of practice deals with issues of this kind. The PCC investigation shows they take careful notice, said Mr Satchwell. Mr Soley said the PCC should provide greater guidance for newspapers on issues where the welfare of young people has to be balanced against newspapers' rights to publish stories about their sexual activity.",
  "title": "Editors lash out at MP",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/medialaw",
    "media/media-events-conferences",
    "media/society-of-editors",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "5.15pm: The Society of Editors has hit back at Clive Soley for demanding further restrictions on newspapers' dealings with young people, writes Julia Day",
  "id": "media/2002/mar/21/privacy.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}