{
  "content": "The irreplaceable Michael Bloomberg is very likely going to be replaced by the one-and-only Anthony Weiner. This formulation represents New York's democratic anomaly: nobody can actually replace Michael Bloomberg. He's redefined the job to fit only himself \u2013 one reason he's been having such a hard time finding a suitable and satisfying successor. That could be said for all the successful New York mayors in our lifetime: Rudy Giuliani, Ed Koch, John Lindsay, and Robert Wagner. These were public relations works of art, as well as sui generis figures. The two sore thumbs in their midst, Abe Beame and David Dinkins, were conscientious but small figures. Beame and Dinkins demonstrated that, unlike the presidency, it is not the office of mayor that gives the man stature, but the man who gives this fairly rotten job of holding back squabbling thugs and bagmen some lift and flight. The mayor of New York is our actor and salesman. He or she has to fill the stage and make the sale. Hence, against all likelihood, Weiner's inevitability. But his reappearance this week on Twitter \u2013 the instrument of his original downfall, where he was last seen in a state of undress and disgrace \u2013 must surely presage the announcement of his candidacy. keystothecity.uberflip.com/i/121474 \u2014 Anthony Weiner (@anthonyweiner) April 22, 2013 But first a recap of the terrible existential plight of the current field of candidates. There's William C Thompson Jr, who, like Abe Beame before him, was once the city comptroller; there is Christine Quinn now the city council speaker; there is John C Liu, the current comptroller; there is Bill de Blasio, the city's public advocate; and there is Sal Albanese, a former councilman from Brooklyn. Like Dinkins and Beame they are each greater and lesser cogs in the city's political and administrative bureaucracy. Few bureaucracies are as horizon-limiting as New York's, which is really saying something. It's a midget-maker. Among the most soul-killing words that can be uttered about a public offficial are \"He [or she] rose through the Democratic party organization in \u2026 [name any of the key precincts of the city]\". It is not that you would have necessarily become corrupt (although it is not clear how that could actually be avoided, and various issues attach to each candidate), but you would certainly have become dull, backward, mean, unhappy, and stupider than when you started. Even Bloomberg's better predecessors were, to some extent, products of the machine: Koch and Lindsey both came from Congress; Giuliani was a federal prosecutor, while Wagner came from one of New York's leading political dynasties. Such backgrounds are in preposterous contrast to Bloomberg's. Bloomberg, pressing his anti-democratic advantage, has represented a clean break from electoral politics and the political class. He has unlimited wealth, no real party affiliation, and is temperamentally remote from the common man. He is supported by a private organization and by individuals whom he can privately incentivize. What's more, he has supported the public sector from his own pocket in ways that might make life extremely difficult for the next mayor if he withdraws that support. In 2009, by effective fiat, he overturned term limits to have himself re-elected. By then, as now, it had become almost impossible to imagine anyone else in the job. The contrast between Bloomberg and his field of successors is almost from one species to another. These are comical figures of such insignificance and desperate need to elevate themselves at the public expense that their election is not just clearly ill-advised, but is almost unimaginable. There is only one actual contender among them, Quinn, the council speaker, who has created a near-mythical status for herself as perpetrator of petty vindictiveness. The New York Times has come, on an almost daily basis, to treat her not just with incredulity, but with open horror. So Anthony. Weiner was once small-time, too. But say this for scandal, it made him a household name and national figure. With a little critical interpretation, it was a wholly positive sort of experience for him. Great drama and attention, but nothing illegal. It was about character \u2013 such that, handled properly, he might be seen in the public's eye to have grown from low character to a much-improved, even ennobled, one. At the very least, he certainly became a much more interesting guy. It is about managing your press. The difference between successful New York mayors and unsuccessful ones, and the difference between machine wannabees and real candidates, is that ineffable thing called \"story\". You can't tell a story about bridge tolls and housing developments. This is New York, where the national media lives, so you have to tell a story with broad appeal and timely importance. And this isn't just about having a good story, it's also about having the wherewithal to tell it. Bloomberg had $20bn and his own media company. Giuliani was a product of the Justice Department's southern district, with its famous press office. Koch had Rupert Murdoch making his case. And Anthony Weiner has the attention of the Clintons, who continue to run possibly the best press operation in national politics. This is what separates the townies from the elites. Weiner's return to politics started several weeks ago, in the New York Times magazine. There on the cover was this former trainwreck, a sweaty man who had only ever appeared before the public in bad suits, now in jeans and open shirt and suddenly handsome, hand in hand with his incredibly serious and fetching wife, Huma Abedin, one of Hillary Clinton's closest aides. This was followed inside by many thousands of words about the couple's transformation. This is really how you play the game. And nobody was so relieved that it was finally being played at a high level than the people who have to write about it. \u2022 Editor's note: the spelling of former mayor John Lindsay's name was amended at 11.20am on 23 April",
  "title": "Only Anthony Weiner can succeed Michael Bloomberg as New York mayor | Michael Wolff",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "us-news/anthony-weiner",
    "us-news/michaelbloomberg",
    "media/media",
    "us-news/new-york",
    "us-news/us-politics",
    "us-news/christine-quinn",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "Michael Wolff: Weiner's comeback from his Twitter sexting scandal underlines that, in a field of political pygmies, he has the media chops to win",
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/apr/23/anthony-weiner-michael-bloomberg-nyc-mayor",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}