{
  "content": "It is astonishing that you publish an article based on such poor evidence (Most Syrians back Assad, 18 January). We have no doubt that the Doha Debates are a respectable forum for dialogue, but in the poll Jonathan Steele quotes, 1,012 respondents completed the survey, with only 21% (211 respondents) from the Levant. Only 46% of those 211 were from Syria \u2013 that's about 97 respondents. How can this possibly be representative of Syrian opinion? And is it even possible to conduct an objective opinion poll in a tyranny ruled by fear, where expressing opinions freely can lead to arrest, torture, and even execution? Steele talks about western media bias, but does not mention that very few journalists have been able to enter Syria legally. Those that do are kept under tight surveillance. Neither does he mention the role of Syrian state media in spreading disinformation and fuelling armed conflict. He seems to have set himself an impossible task \u2013 proving the legitimacy of a dictatorship which kills its citizens on a daily basis. Anas El-Khani, Kinana Saffour, Anass Toma, Amr Salahi, Hamza al-Sibaai, Hussam Hajjouk British Solidarity for Syria \u2022 One has to wonder at the naivety of accepting the results of any opinion poll in Syria. Every phone, email, Facebook account and conversation is liable to be bugged. There is a large section of Syrian society trapped between a brutal regime they detest and a divided opposition they do not know, who are fearful of foreign intervention, or a civil war that would destroy the country they love. They are the key to Syria's future. Contrary to Steele's argument that the media has ignored the armed uprising against Assad, I have lost count of the articles about the Free Syrian Army, that, if anything, overhype its strength. It also underplays the role of the huge numbers of peaceful protesters who march every day, putting their lives on the line. Yet one of the strangest things about Steele's article is that, actually, for once, Nato states, especially Britain, are definitely not champing at the bit to intervene in Syria. Many Syrian opposition groups have been seeking their support for this in vain. It is as if, after seeing the west intervene all over the Middle East for decades, they refuse to, believe that on this occasion there will be no US cavalry coming to invade. In the US and Europe, there is no political will, no clear winnable military strategy, no electoral support nor the financial resources to intervene. On one issue, Steele is right. Syria needs a strengthened monitoring presence. It has to be a team numbering thousands, properly trained, with leaders of impeccable credentials, and with a tough independent mandate that allows them to travel and communicate with complete freedom. Only then will the regime's freedom to kill and torture be restricted. Chris Doyle Caabu, Advancing Arab-British Relations",
  "title": "Letters: Syrian poll backing Assad has no credibility",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/syria",
    "world/middleeast",
    "world/world",
    "world/bashar-al-assad",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": " Is it even possible to conduct an objective opinion poll in a tyranny ruled by fear?",
  "id": "world/2012/jan/19/syrian-poll-assad-no-credibility",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}