{
  "content": "There are several moments when Jack Cator is telling me his story that sound like they've been written by a slightly lazy Hollywood scriptwriter. Because we've all heard about the quiet, ever-so-slightly nerdy teenager who sets up a website from his parents' sofa and turns it into a multi-million-pound global business. But Jack Cator actually is that person. His particular sofa was in a small village in Norfolk \u2013 Breckles \u2013 and the website he set up at the age of 16, HideMyAss!, turned over \u00a311m last year. And even our interview conforms to the cliche of the genre: it's taking place in the corporate boardroom of his groovy offices in Soho (a yellow piano in the reception, a graffiti wall) and though a PR man and his chief operating officer are in attendance as well as me, he is, by quite some margin, the youngest person in the room. He's now 25, and in the film of his life, this would be the moment that the journalist asks: \"So tell me, Jack, what is the secret of your success?\" And then the scene would cut to an image of him running his company from a laptop on a beach with a beautiful woman at his side. Which is pretty much spot on. He's just returned from Goa \u2013 his girlfriend is a yoga teacher and wanted to practise there \u2013 and while he now has nearly 100 employees, he spent the last month or so running the business literally from his sun lounger. \"Is there even Wi-Fi on the beach?\" I ask, trying to get my head around this. \"3G,\" he says. \"It just about stretched that far.\" His story is a remarkable tale to which his deadpan delivery doesn't quite do justice. He was still operating from his parents' sofa, he tells me, when he decided he needed to get a lawyer. \"So I posted it as a question on Reddit.\" \"Is that how you solve all of life's problems?\" I ask. \"By posting on Reddit?\" \"Yes,\" he says. \"I post everything on Reddit.\" One lawyer in particular, Danvers Baillieu, \"got upvoted a few times, so\u2026\" That was that. Baillieu, who's now the COO of Cator's parent company, Privax, continues the story for me. \"I was doing quite a lot of work with startups, mostly helping them with the legal side of things,\" he says. \"They all had lots of ideas but no money. And then Jack came to see me and he mentioned his turnover\u2026 and I said: 'And how much is your turnover, out of interest?' And he said: 'Oh you know\u2026 around 10 to 20 thousand. A day.' And I was writing this down and pretending, 'oh yes, this is completely normal'.\" Making a profit is not completely normal in the tech world, though. Especially not in the early days. What really distinguishes Cator from other British companies in the same space is that he's grown his business entirely from scratch without needing a penny of investment. He built his first website aged 11. \"It was something to do with BMX bikes or something silly like that. I was just using a drag-and-drop style design editor so I didn't need to know how to program. I just moved things around on the screen\u2026 but I gradually learned how to design and use Photoshop from reading tutorials on the internet. And then every time I learned something new I would write a tutorial about it and a bit of a community grew up around the website.\" Did your parents encourage you? Or were they more like, \"Get off the computer and go and get some fresh air\"? \"More like, 'Get off that computer\u2026', but yeah, they don't mention that so much now.\" It meant he already had five years of experience under his belt when one afternoon, aged 16, he had the idea for a new website. \"I literally created it in a few hours in a single afternoon.\" HideMyAss! is a virtual private network or VPN, and it's a way of accessing the internet, privately and anonymously, via another computer's IP address. Was there a specific trigger for the idea? \"There wasn't one thing,\" he says, \"I just thought it was a good idea to help people block censorship. I thought it was a good cause.\" Given that he was 16 at the time, when he says \"censorship\", he doesn't mean the Chinese government's Great Firewall of China. \"At school, you couldn't access MySpace at the time, or online games. That kind of thing.\" He looked online to find some free open-source code, cobbled it into a very plain, minimalist website design, and \u2013 in what was perhaps his stroke of marketing genius \u2013 gave it a bold, unconventional name, then submitted it to Digg, \"which was the Reddit of its day\". He knew his audience, and it hit the front page of Digg almost immediately. \"There were other sites,\" he says. \"But they were very cluttered, had lots of ads, whereas this was just a logo and a text box, and it just went viral.\" And because he'd already created dozens of other sites, he knew what to do. \"I was being linked to from thousands of websites, but I just added more servers pretty quickly because I'd got the experience from my web hosting days and my tutorial-writing days, so I had hundreds of thousands of users in the first month.\" What's more, it wasn't just school kids. \"It was people from all over the globe and they weren't just accessing online games. They were accessing news websites, for example, in the Middle East, and I realised that actually this is a very useful tool. And a very important tool for some people. So I just put some ads on it and then let it run itself for a few years.\" In the meantime, he went to college in Norwich to study \"computer something\". Computer something? \"I can't actually remember. It wasn't important.\" And then he decided that this little sideline of his was shaping up to be a rather successful business. I ask when he first started making money from it. \"Well, there's money and there's money. I mean, I was making a small amount through advertising, but it wasn't until 2009 when I launched a subscription service that it really took off financially.\" But before then it was making enough to run itself? \"Yeah. It was running itself and maybe giving me $1-2,000 a month.\" Most 16-year-olds would consider that pretty substantial pocket money, I point out. \"Yeah. But I was doing other things to make money online \u2013 from affiliate marketing and promoting software and getting paid for downloads and so on, so I was making other money as well at that time.\" But then, if there's one thing that Jack Cator's story demonstrates, it's that starting young is a brilliant strategy in and of itself. \"I had no mortgage or outgoings or financial dependencies, so I could just experiment and create things without worrying if it'd make money. It obviously gets harder when you have bills to pay.\" His other great strategic advantage was being located in rural Norfolk. He used freelancers for everything. \"I hadn't met a single one of my employees or even spoken to them on the phone until I set up the office in London.\" And while everybody is being told they must know how to code, Cator mostly just commissioned someone else to do what he needed. \"I just found people online through websites like oDesk.com where you can hire a freelancer per hour or per project from another country very cheaply.\" His system architect was in Ukraine, \"so we built up an office around him there\" and \"my customer service person was in Belgrade so we did the same thing there\". And when he finally made the Norfolk-to-London leap, he offered jobs to the freelancers he'd been using. It's perhaps why, from my impression at least, the staff looks less startup cool and more diverse than you might expect. But then, as he points out, he's had no almost contact with London's startup scene, with Silicon Roundabout, or Tech City; he's simply built up an incredibly successful, profitable business without any of the attendant posing and fanfare. \"What really impressed me,\" says Danvers Baillieu, \"is that I persuaded my company to shell out some tickets for a table at the TechCrunch awards and I invited Jack. When I went around introducing him, there were a lot of people who were already using HideMyAss! but had no clue who Jack was or knew anything about him. That was when I realised, 'This guy is on to something here.'\" He was. And HideMyAss! now has more than 10 million free unique users per month and 200,000 paying subscribers and has recently launched a new service, HideMyPhone. \"It's an app that allows you to get an additional phone number on your phone,\" he says. \"So if you want\u2026\" To stalk someone? \"No, actually quite the opposite. If you want to give your number to someone and you don't want to give them your real number, if you're online dating, for example, you can just get a virtual number on the app.\" Edward Snowden was very good for business, he says. And there have been huge spikes during various bouts of political unrest, particularly the Arab spring. But generally, people are wising up about both security and privacy. \"It's both about protecting yourself online and getting out of the eyes of people who intend to do you harm. And then there's the whole tracking angle. You're being constantly monitored, everything you do is being sold to different advertising agencies. Your entire web fingerprint is in the hands of big corporations. It's quite creepy. That's all very well and good but can't HideMyAss be used to hide illegal activities? \"I always get asked this but it's just like with any new technology \u2013 of course they can be misused. Google gets misused. BT broadband gets misused. But we're really clear in our terms and conditions that we don't support torrenting or illegal downloading. And if you do something bad and we get a request from the police, we will hand over your details.\" And do you get many requests? \"We get some. It's quite low compared to an ISP or something.\" Lloyd Abbott, Cator's PR, takes the unusual step of sending me the company's accounts before the interview, which show that Cator is nearly doubling his revenue year-on-year But then entrepreneurship is in his blood \u2013 his father runs his own mechanical engineering firm. \"I always saw how hard he worked,\" Cator says. Even before he built his first website he was getting into trouble selling Pok\u00e9mon cards at school. So, what's planned for the future? Can you see yourself being Virgin-sized in 20 years? He shrugs. \"I don't see why not,\" he says in his trademark deadpan delivery. \"I think we've just scratched the surface.\" Online security: five ways to stay safe A VPN service such as HideMyAss! is just one of many actions you can take to secure yourself online 1. Secure your passwords If you use the same password for everything, it's time to stop. Not only is this incredibly risky, it's entirely unnecessary thanks to the plethora of cross-platform password managers on the market, most of which are freely available or very cheap. Once set up, a good password manager can encrypt, generate and remember your passwords for you. We like Passpack and LastPass, but be sure to shop around. Additionally, if any application or website provides you with the option to activate double authentication, use it. This will require you to type in a code (usually sent to your phone via SMS) when you try to log in to your account from a new location. It adds another layer of security and greatly reduces your risk of being compromised. 2. Secure your browser \"Click here to find hot singles in your area!\" Every wondered how online adverts seem to know exactly where you live? Your browser can give away a lot of information about you \u2013 with some very basic analytics tools, a website can pinpoint your location, what links you've clicked, how many times you've visited in the past and even track your cursor movements. These are largely used to make your browsing experience more convenient, but if you'd rather have more control over what you're revealing about yourself, try installing a few plugins on your browser. We recommend starting out with Ghostery, a plugin that tracks the trackers, allowing you to block anything it finds. 3. Secure your email If like most people you're using a webmail service such as Gmail, Hotmail or Yahoo then you might want to consider using a more secure alternative. It's more than likely you've been using these for years, so switching to a new email address entirely is probably not a very viable option. However, if you ever need to send a sensitive email, then it's a good idea to have a secure account for those occasions. Hushmail is a great place to start \u2013 it's a free (but limited, unless you subscribe) Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) encrypted webmail service, with no third-party advertising sneakily harvesting details from your account in an attempt to push more relevant or personalised ads your way. 4. Use a proxy or a virtual private network A proxy can mask your online activity by relaying data (accessed through your browser) via a server in a different location, thus obfuscating the source of your original requests. A Virtual Private Network (VPN) is very similar, except these are intended to mask all data, rather than just the requests sent through your browser. Proxies tend to be free but not very convenient and sometimes quite slow (try hide.me), whereas a good VPN is more convenient and arguably more secure, but will almost always require a monthly or yearly subscription. Jack Cator's HideMyAss is a fairly user-friendly VPN and offers a 30-day money-back guarantee. Hotspot Shield is one of the most popular free VPNs. 5. Delve into the deep web If you're feeling very adventurous, you can dabble with Tor, a network of virtual tunnels that allows individuals to surf the web and communicate anonymously. Occasionally referred to as being part of the \"deep\" web, the data accessed through Tor is unindexed by search engines, making it, in a sense, invisible. The fundamental idea behind Tor is to allow people to communicate over public networks without having to worry about their own privacy. This is great for whistleblowers, people from countries that block some web content, government or military communications, or individuals who desire a very robust form of online privacy. Sadly, this also opens the service up to some nefarious and illegal activity, so be careful where you tread. Nicholas Tufnell",
  "title": "HideMyAss! Your secret's safe with Jack",
  "lead": "Jack Cator was 16 when he started HideMyAss! \u2013 now it's a multi-million-pound global business",
  "tags": [
    "technology/startups",
    "business/technology",
    "business/business",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/internet-safety",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2015/mar/15/hidemyass-startup-secrets-safe-with-jack-cator",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}