{
  "content": "Abi Wilkinson: 'Twitter has allowed us to break into what seemed a closed shop' In 2009 I was lonely. I'd moved to a brand new city to start university and my boyfriend had decided to come with me. I found my study fascinating, but outside of three weekly hour-long seminars I had little access to people to discuss it with. When my boyfriend came home from work the last thing he wanted to do was dissect the finer points of political theory. He was also suspicious of my desire to make new friends and I eventually gave up on trying to socialise. Desperate to occupy my time, I created a Twitter account. It turned out to be exactly what I needed. Quickly, I became part of a community who chatted about all the same things I wanted to talk about. I could debate with Adam Smith Institute employees about Lockean property rights or argue with social conservatives about the broken windows theory. I had a new network of friends to natter about everyday things with. While my mates from home were busy drinking and flirting, I knew I could always go online and find someone to gossip and joke with. When I was feeling down, there would be someone there to lend a sympathetic ear. My relationship fell apart and I eventually threw myself into university life, but I didn't break the Twitter habit. I had friends on the other side of the world who knew more about my daily thoughts, feelings and concerns than anyone I'd ever been in a room with. When I finished university, it was Twitter that helped me find my first graduate job working for Trinity Mirror. I'd written a blog about a bad experience at the jobcentre so everyone knew I was looking for work. A friend directed my attention towards a tweet advertising a paid internship and pestered me to apply. Somehow, miraculously, I was offered a two-week trial. If you'd asked me back in 2009 if I could imagine myself working in the media, I'd probably have laughed in your face. Many of the same people I remember tweeting with back then have jobs at newspapers and magazines. Twitter has allowed us to break into what seemed a closed shop. Obscure blogs can generate as much conversation as broadsheet leaders. It's possible to catch the eye of commissioning editors even if you have no formal credentials. Looking back, it's hard to imagine what my life would be like if Twitter had never existed. Maybe I'd have flunked out of university. Perhaps I'd still be stuck in an unhappy relationship. Certainly, I doubt my career would have gone the way it has. On the 10th birthday of the social network, I suppose it's really about time I said thanks. Steven Baxter: 'I'm stuck in a toxic relationship with a little bird icon' Twitter is a sickness. I'm stuck in a toxic relationship with a little bird icon on my telephone. I need help \u2013 and so do you. I loved that little tweety bird once. I craved the gold sticker of a retweet or the pat on the head of a favourite. I tried everything \u2013 puns, hashtag games, memes, pretending to know about American politics \u2013 just for the thrill of being read by a stranger. But it all got too much. There are many bad things about Twitter \u2013 from the open sewer of racism and abuse to the horrendous blue-ticked cliques squawking at each other, from snarky subtweets to heartbreaking unfollows from people you like \u2013 but if I could pick one downside as the worst, it would be the Plague of Angry Eggs. At first, when you have a relatively popular tweet (say more than 25 RTs), it's exciting. You've made it. \"I once got retweeted by a minor celebrity!\" you tell your friends \u2013 if you have any left now that you're staring at the people in your telephone every 10 seconds. Then reality kicks in. Tweeting can be like dangling your meat-smeared genitals through the bars at the zoo and whistling cheerily at the ravenous wolverines. The Angry Eggs take issue with what you've said, a particular word, your choice of profile picture or a grammatical error, and your joy is over. Hatred and finger-wagging pollutes your @-mentions. You tweeted something six years ago that contradicts your tweet! Aha! I managed a Twitter flounce, once, loudly announcing I was leaving the party and attempting to cause a scene. No one particularly noticed. \"Real\" life carried on and was rather refreshing without constantly having to tell the people in my telephone every thought in my head. But I needed my fix. I sneaked back. I blocked all the irritants I could think of \u2013 your Hopkinses, your Blunts. I deleted all tweets every two weeks, but that wasn't enough. I tried to keep my thoughts to myself as much as possible and stop craving retweets and likes. But I couldn't help myself. The Plague of Angry Eggs was still there as well, and in greater numbers. My nemesis. Just waiting in the shadows for me to say something in order to disagree with it without reading it properly, or wilfully misunderstand the point of a joke. And yet, I just can't seem to quit.",
  "title": "It's Twitter's 10th birthday. So do you love it or hate it? | Head to head",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Abi Wilkinson and Steven Baxter debate whether we should be giving thanks, or trying to end our toxic relationship with the angry little bird",
  "id": "commentisfree/2016/mar/21/twitter-10th-birthday-love-hate",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}