{
  "content": "This month Sift Digital launches our second report into benchmarking online and social communities, following the inaugural report in 2011. The findings have been really encouraging and, in many respects, indicate a momentum that is sweeping across the sector and empowering organisations big and small to accelerate away from the old one-dimensional broadcast model to becoming more open, social and collaborative. We surveyed a broad range of leading charities; everyone from Macmillan, Age UK and Breast Cancer Care through to YouthNet and RNLI contributed data and insight into our comprehensive findings and analysis. Last year, we noted with some concern that only 19% of organisations felt their online communities were able to influence organisational policy. The 2012 data has that number at a much healthier 46%. People cited examples of where conversations online had directly informed planning and strategy, enabled them to target resources more effectively, and helped them shape, improve and extend their offline support services. In a similar vein, we saw a massive uplift in the number of people reporting their community activity upwards to senior management; 38% last year had risen to 83% this year. This tells us is there is increasing appetite for listening to the dialogue and learning from the outputs. Anecdotally, we know that more often than not the catalyst for senior management to start paying attention is when something goes wrong. The indications are positive \u2013 increasingly trustees and senior management teams appreciate they can no longer ignore the discourse that flows all around them, they need to be a part of it and to empower their teams to nurture the right relationships. Another key area of this year's research was trying to define the value of community. We found that there was a huge desire to measure the impact of community, but very few people had the tools to measure it. Lots of charities are familiar with the concept of social return on investment (SROI) and impact reporting, but hardly any have applied this to their online activity. This year, to augment our research, we've partnered with Jim Clifford, a research fellow at Cass Business School, who specialises in impact measurement and strategy. Commenting on the application of SROI logic, Clifford observes: \"The social impact of online communities comes, I would suggest, from three main areas: facilitating support and mutual-support for users, enabling the organisation to influence a wider audience and scrutiny \u2026 If these are understood in the context of a particular community, and supported by a clear view of the changes they bring about in the community they serve, then an evaluation is possible.\" The framework for evaluating SROI is not as complex as it may seem. It's whether the motivation is there to measure it. It's relatively simple to measure the cost efficiency of, say, online as opposed to face-to-face support, but if you take that one step further to demonstrate the impact and broader social outcome of that support on the individuals you reach and their families and friends, then you have the foundation of a compelling evaluation you can present to potential funders. The other key finding that was explored this year was around mobile. Without meaning to generalise, most of the sector is still struggling to get up to speed with mobile design and interaction online. It's hardly surprising: the infrastructural changes, not just to technology but also to content, are substantial and not cheap. The fact is that more and more online and social content is now consumed via mobile devices. Very few communities are set up to accommodate this, unless it's via native social applications. 2013 will be a challenging year as many charities try to get their heads around the principles and practices of putting mobile interaction to the fore. What we did find is that while a lot of consumption takes place on mobile, a lot of interaction still happens via desktops, particularly when long and emotionally challenging posts are being written. Five things to think about for 2013 1. Bring the conversations to your SMT and trustees; they have to feel like they have a stake in it too. 2. Measure, evaluate, share: learn how to apply a simple SROI framework to your online activities; it will bolster your credibility. 3. Mobile first; what steps can you take to enable access to you across devices? 4. Content and conversation: are you getting the blend right? Think hard about what motivates dialogue. 5. Overcome the fear factor; the conversations will happen whether you are there or not; clear policies and guidelines will empower you to talk freely. Nick Torday is managing director of Sift Digital. You can read the research findings in more detail here. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the voluntary sector network, click here.",
  "title": "Online communities: organisations become more open and collaborative",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network-blog",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network",
    "society/charities",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/social-media",
    "society/voluntarysector"
  ],
  "lead": "New research looks at the best ways to measure the effectiveness and value of online conversations",
  "id": "voluntary-sector-network/2012/dec/13/online-communities-organisations-open-collaborative",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}