{
  "content": "Well, so much for apathetic youth. For most of the past decade, the idea that 20-somethings could get political seemed fanciful. Indeed, odd blip aside (the fuel blockades, say, or the 2003 anti-war march), mass political protest of all kinds seemed impossibly quaint \u2013 too old-fashioned for a Westminster overrun by youngish men and women with PPE degrees, and an electorate primed to see all policy-making as a bad real-world improvisation of The Thick of It. Perhaps that was only a boom-time lull. Scroll forward to an epic slump and the biggest public spending cuts since 1945 carried out by a coalition government without a clear mandate for making them \u2013 and you have the conditions for wide and justified unrest. Whether it is the student rallies or campus occupations, or this weekend's sit-ins at the outposts of Sir Philip Green's empire, two related observations can be made. First, the protests are happening outside the mainstream political process, and second, they are not narrowly sectional. The second point is easy to illustrate. Many of the undergraduates protesting against higher tuition fees will not have to pay them; yet students are not only arguing against dearer degrees, but against the rest of David Cameron's cuts too. And surely not even the most optimistic tax-justice campaigner can ever have thought accountancy small-print would spark street protests. Yet all this has escalated without Ed Miliband, and months ahead of the TUC rearing its head. The actions we have seen so far resemble Seattle's anti-globalisation protests rather than classic social democracy. This satisfactorily quashes the myth that all young people want to do with the internet is watch videos of cats playing the piano; but it also raises a question about how long or deep these protests will go. These are Britain's first big protests in the age of social media; and it's easy for observers to focus on campaigners' use of Twitter, Facebook and all those anti-cuts websites springing up. But what will determine the success of these campaigns is whether they get wider support and legitimacy \u2013 and that means Labour and the unions weighing in. The fate of the campaign against eye-watering tuition fees, for instance, hinges on next week's vote in parliament. In the meantime, only the most deep-frozen soul wouldn't be cheered up by the sight last Monday of a crowd outside Topshop on Oxford Street lobbying shoppers about Green's tax affairs and about how \"if you bring markets into our education, we will bring our education into your markets\". Situationism in skinny jeans, you might call it. Or possibly the \"big society\" in action.",
  "title": "MPs, take note: A new political youth is brewing",
  "lead": "Recent student demonstrations and tomorrow's UK Uncut sit-ins demonstrate how social media has changed the face of protest",
  "tags": [
    "world/protest",
    "education/tuition-fees",
    "business/taxavoidance",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/social-media",
    "society/youngpeople",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk-uncut"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "world/2010/dec/03/new-political-youth-brewing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}