{
  "content": "Sweeping reforms to defamation legislation and the creation of a new privacy law that could have far-reaching implications for UK newspapers were announced last night in Ireland. A new press council, which will have statutory powers, will also be established by the Irish government, despite advice from the UK Press Complaints Commission that this would stifle press freedom. The proposed legislation will be watched closely by critics of the press in the UK who feel the PCC does not offer sufficient protection to members of the public from newspapers. It will also have a direct impact on the Daily Mail, the Daily Star, the Sun, the Mirror, the News of the World and the Sunday Times, all of which publish separate Irish editions. Under the proposals, announced by the justice minister, Michael McDowell, the old laws of slander and libel will be replaced by new defamation legislation, which will include a new defence of \"fair and reasonable publication on a matter of public importance\". Another important feature of the proposals is the requirement that anyone who sues a newspaper for alleged defamation will have to swear a verifiable affidavit that they know the article to be untrue. Speaking on RTE radio this morning, Mr McDowell said this affidavit requirement would make \"bluff type libels\" more difficult if not impossible. \"There has been at least one celebrated libel case by a person who knew that the article was true but managed to extract an apology and a payment to a charity by a newspaper just simply on the basis that he knew they could never be able to prove it,\" Mr McDowell added He said the new privacy law was necessary to bring Ireland into line with European legislation following the landmark Princess Caroline of Monaco case, in which the European court of human rights judged that the princess's privacy had been breached by paparazzi photographs of her shopping. If the legislation goes through unchallenged, courts in Ireland will have the power to force newspapers to hand over photographs and delete archives of articles judged to be an invasion of an individual's privacy. Mr McDowell said this did not mean newspapers could not continue to photograph celebrities, such as football stars, who courted publicity but it meant public figures would be entitled to go on holiday without being snapped \"undressing on the beach\". The proposed creation of a statutory press council has already proved controversial. The council will have 13 directors, seven representing the public, five representing the interests of newspaper owners and publishers and one representing the interests of journalists. It would draw up a code - similar to the PCC code of practice in the UK - and appoint an ombudsman who would investigate complaints from those affected by breaches of the rules. The council would offer speedy redress to individuals who did not want the expense or trauma of going to court, according to the Irish government. But the press council proposal was immediately attacked by Ger Colleran, the editor of the Irish Daily Star, who said it could be abused by the justice minister, who had his \"fingerprints\" all over the council. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Ireland to reform libel laws",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/world",
    "world/ireland",
    "world/privacy",
    "law/law",
    "world/europe-news"
  ],
  "lead": " The Irish government has announced plans to reform defamation legislation and create a new privacy law that have far-reaching implications for the UK press. By Lisa O'Carroll",
  "id": "media/2006/jul/05/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}