{
  "content": "Twitter has opened up its self-serve advertising platform to small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the UK, Ireland and Canada, allowing it for the first time to sell ad space directly to small business outside America. Previously, companies not based in the US have had to develop a working relationship with Twitter in order to buy adverts on the site. That limited the site's customer base to large companies only, and correspondingly lowered on the amount of revenue it could raise. \"If you can Tweet, you can advertise on Twitter,\" says Ravi Narasimhan, a product manager at the company. \"All you need is a Twitter account and a credit card. You're in control of your ads, the audience you want to reach, and of course your budget. Best of all, you will only be charged when people follow your Promoted Account or retweet, reply, favorite or click on your Promoted Tweets. You are never charged for your organic Twitter activity.\" In the UK, the self-service platform has been launched in partnership with O2, which is offering support and resources to SMEs, including a tool to let SMEs monitor their social media activity. O2 is also awarding \u00a350 Twitter ad credit for free to customers who use the tool. \"During conversations with our small business customers we are often told that what they really need is advice to understand how they can use platforms like Twitter,\" says O2's Ben Dowd. \"We believe that it's our responsibility as both a large corporate and a digital services company to guide them. That's why we are investing our time, money and expertise in this new social insights platform.\" Earlier this week, Matt Wheeler, the chief executive of digital marketing firm Driftrock, identified global self-service ads as one of three ways Twitter could boost its revenue immediately. After the roll-out the company \"should see fast growth in ad revenues as SME advertisers join the party.\" He predicts \"a huge volume\" of SMEs will take part in the opportunity. Since the company's IPO in early November, which saw it go public with a valuation of $24bn, Twitter has been rapidly rolling out new features. On Wednesday, it revealed custom timelines, a tool which enables users to curate and aggregate tweets into one embeddable list. Jason Sumner, a technology analyst at The Economist intelligence unit, says users should expect the company to offer more features over the coming weeks. \"Some ideas will work and some will not but the important thing now is to show the R and D machine is churning out new initiatives to drive up the user base, especially outside the US, and get creative with mobile ads.\"",
  "title": "Twitter opens up advertising to small businesses in the UK",
  "lead": "The social network lets small and medium enterprises outside the US advertise for the first time, just a week after its IPO. By Alex Hern",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "business/ipos",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/advertising",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/social-media",
    "business/small-business"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2013/nov/14/twitter-opens-up-advertising-to-small-businesses-in-the-uk",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}