{
  "content": "Some time on Saturday afternoon, I pulled up outside a farm near Bletchley for Electromagnetic Field \u2013 a festival for coders, makers, hackers and tech heads. My final approach was flanked by two drones overhead (security maybe?) while the other side of the fence was home to geodesic domes, marquees and ridge tents, all functionally decorated with solar cells, LED string and the occasional antenna. I had a feeling that if society collapsed and the geeks did in fact inherit the earth, this was their Bartertown. I switched on my own two portable Wi-Fi hotspots \u2013 one piratebox and a more socially acceptable Library Box. I wore my Local Area Networks with pride and walked into the Electromagnetic Field. It was a fascinating cross-section of wellie-wearing, seasoned festival-goers, tweedy academics, small children and older folk on souped-up mobility scooters. Somewhere among them was the bearded man I sought, @Jonty Wareing, who had brought all of this together. En route to a talk, I met its speaker Hannah Nicklin, whose PhD explored how games influence theatre as a way to bring down capitalism. Many in the audience had been drawn in by the title \u2013 \"Where Games Break\" \u2013 which was about how games play with systems and affect our lives. She let that slip on stage and if there was a cred-o-meter in the wings you would have heard an audible \"ding!\" as it hit the top. Outside, among the screengazers, I narrowly avoided being run over by a man driving a huge yellow duck and then bumped into Tom Watson MP, off to a Doctor Who screening with his son, who was showing off a glowing robot circuit board he had just soldered. Every delegate had the most advanced conference badge you'll ever see. Once registered, the 'TiLDA MKe' let visitors browse an automatically updated schedule, pinged notifications of relevant sessions and had a built-in torch, rain alarm and two games. I'll never look at conference badges in the same way again. Somewhere a digital totem was delivering amazing internet. I could almost smell the bandwidth. Later on \u2013 still without @Jonty \u2013 I went looking for an analogue real ale, wandering in the LED-speckled darkness where constant digital stimuli were amplified by enthusiastic geeks. A pedal-powered, cocktail-mixing robot was equipped with a real-time International Space Station tracker. Further along I met a group of people hammering red hot metal in a blacksmithing workshop. Makers had assembled a giant illuminated robotic eye that followed you as you went past; people used lasers and 3D printers to create things; in a retro gaming arcade a dad taught his son how to code Basic with a Commodore 64; a man cooked sausages in the dark outside his tent, where a Sinclair C5 was also parked. Still without @Jonty and my real ale, I saw a few barrels stacked up in a form that indicated it was a festival bar. Near the pumps was what looked like an oversized receipt printer that was churning out hard copies of all tweets using the hashtag #EMFcamp. The bar conversation was intensely nerdy: C++ and D-Star converters. I listened for a conversation I could handle and honed in on a stray whinger, a guy complaining that his festival badge couldn't check the weather. \"Let me get this straight,\" I said. \"You're in a field with a 500MB internet connection playing Tetris on your name badge while drinking a pint of ale you ordered via Twitter?\" \"When you put it like that,\" he smiled, \"it's not all bad\". I followed the music and found myself at the main stage for The 55th Flotilla and 2XAA on his Gameboy, then I danced to Chiptune and controlled the hacked laser visuals with my phone. There was a certain drug-free love in the air. All these people had been drawn here to celebrate and share their digitally infused culture. I did find @Jonty in the end, as a result of a snippet of radio chatter as I walked past a festival steward. The message crackled something about a bitcoin issue that needed resolving. It was @Jonty: fixing stuff. EMFCamp, @Jonty explained, has tripled in size since 2012. Burning Man had been going for eight years when it reached 1,000 people; EMFCamp has been running for two years and is already at 1,000. @Jonty worried that it was growing too fast and we talked about open-source badge technology and the logistics of getting bandwidth and power to a field. As we talked a sci-fi film was being made behind me, some people were playing laser tag in a field nearby and a drone flew overhead. I stayed at EMFCamp just long enough to get hooked and it felt like the seed of the UK's own Arduino-powered Burning Man.",
  "title": "Electromagnetic Field: the UK's Burning Man festival?",
  "lead": "Christian Payne: More than 1,000 makers, hackers and coders celebrated UK digital culture in a field near Bletchley at the weekend: there were drones, C5s, Basic and a cocktail-mixing robot",
  "tags": [
    "technology/computing",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/programming",
    "culture/festivals",
    "technology/hacking"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2014/sep/03/electromagnetic-field-camp-emfcamp-drones-arduino-burning-man",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}