{
  "content": "Andrew Neil, former editor of the Sunday Times, was emphatic about what the Guardian's revelations of illegal phone hacking revealed about the News of the World. \"It was,\" said Neil within hours of the story breaking, \"a newsroom out of control\". But former and current staff of the Sunday tabloid paint a very different picture. Though the full extent of former editor Andy Coulson's knowledge of the use of underhand reporting techniques remains unclear, he has previously emphasised that he always took a detailed interest in the stories published in his paper during his editorship from 2003 to the beginning of 2007. \"We talk about our stories in great detail prior to publication,\" Coulson told Press Gazette in 2005, following a series of scoops about the affairs of David Blunkett, David Beckham and Sven-Goran Eriksson. \"I'm very lucky to have a great executive team here with so much experience. And the group of us \u2013 with the backbench, the news desk, the features desk \u2013 we spend a lot of time talking about stories, thinking them through and trying to second-guess any problems.\" Les Hinton, then the chief executive of News International, told the Commons culture committee: \"I believe absolutely that Andy did not have knowledge of what was going on.\" Inquiries by the Guardian suggest that paying private investigators to blag personal data, hack into mobile phone voicemail accounts and undertake research that blurred the boundaries of legality were parts of a toolkit widely available to News of the World journalists under Coulson. From senior news editors down, reporters and executives had knowledge of or directly employed methods which have become known as \"the dark arts\" to enable them to access private information about celebrities, sports stars and cabinet ministers to help fill the pages of the tabloid, current and former News of the World reporters have said. They have described how the use of private investigators was \"well known\" and authorised by senior management. \"When you wanted other things such as ex-directory landlines, mobile numbers, people's addresses or people's phone bills then you had to have it authorised \u2013 I won't say by whom \u2013 because it cost money to get this information,\" a former reporter said. \"These people weren't working for free.\" Another told BBC's Newsnight programme that when Coulson was deputy editor of the News of the World: \"Andy would be at the heart of the operation. He would be 10 feet away from where these [blagging and intercept] operations were coordinated. He didn't operate in an ivory tower. Every morning at 11am he went in to conference and the provenance of these pieces was taken apart.\" Glenn Mulcaire, the private investigator who used to earn at least \u00a32,000 a week from the News of the World until he was jailed for phone hacking in 2007 along with the paper's royal reporter, Clive Goodman, has told friends the paper's expos\u00e9 of Beckham's reported affair with Rebecca Loos stemmed from him hacking into voicemail accounts. \"We had someone who could do medical records,\" one former reporter said. \"This blagger would call local GPs pretending to work at an accident and emergency department saying that a patient was in a critical condition and could they read out their medical records. Most GPs would do that.\" As the former editor of the Sun's gossip column Bizarre, former employees said it was unlikely that Coulson would not be well-versed in most investigative methods. Another former reporter said the culture in the newsroom was that \"no questions are asked\" in regard to methods of obtaining information. They added that Coulson must have been aware of the systemic use of private investigators by his staff. \"It's hard to imagine that he wouldn't have been aware of that \u2013 he was a reporter too.\" The Guardian revealed on Wednesday that those hacking and blagging operations affected thousands of individuals including John Prescott, then deputy prime minister, and Tessa Jowell, currently minister for the Cabinet Office. As the News of the World's staff on the sixth floor of News International's compound at Wapping, east London, today pressed on with preparations for Sunday's paper in an \"under fire\" atmosphere, attention turned to the role of other members of Coulson's team. Stuart Kuttner, the managing editor who has worked with several News of the World editors including Piers Morgan, was said by some former journalists to have been responsible for arranging payments to private investigators, including Mulcaire. Kuttner resigned last Friday, before the story broke. News International refused to comment on Kuttner's role in authorising payments for such information. It has always maintained that payments were for legitimate investigative research. Another former journalist said Kuttner would have had to sign off all search invoices. Invoices would be submitted under the terms \"investigation\" or \"political investigation\" and would be paid for from a different budget over which Kuttner had authority. It was unclear, the reporter said, whether Coulson would have known about the amounts of money being spent on investigators such as Mulcaire. There was a degree of discretion about the use of the tactics, according to an investigation into the News of the World's reporting tactics by the writer Peter Burden. He said only journalists working directly on stories, rather than section heads and editors, would have contact with Mulcaire and a tacit agreement existed that \"those at the top of a paper's management didn't need to know how their reporters obtained information and the reporters never discussed it with their bosses\". Burden asked one reporter whether they probed Mulcaire's methods of getting the information. \"I had my suspicions,\" said the reporter. \"But I never asked questions. No one did. You'd make the call to the PI and two hours later you'd have the information.\" According to Burden's account, Greg Miskiw, the paper's former assistant editor, is understood to have played a key role in establishing Mulcaire as a supplier of information to News Group. Miskiw, described by reporters who worked with him as \"ebullient and outgoing\" and \"News of the World through and through\", became friends with Mulcaire after encouraging him to set up a private investigation company to provide research services to his reporters. In September 2004 Mulcaire established Nine Consultancy. Miskiw left the paper in 2005. He could not be reached for comment today . Once Mulcaire had established the company, his services were placed on offer to the rest of the newsroom, which was under considerable pressure from the editor to deliver scoops. An example of Coulson's ruthless approach to failure came in July 2006. When senior sports journalist Matt Driscoll failed to stand up a tip that Arsenal football club were planning to play in purple shirts, the story later appeared in the Sun. Coulson was furious and emailed deputy editor Neil Wallis saying that he wanted Driscoll \"out as quickly and cheaply as possible\". A junior journalist would have to wait a few years before a senior colleague passed him the investigator's number, Burden said. \"Reporters didn't admit to their use of PIs when they talked among themselves in the newsroom, and when they did contact one, they did so as discreetly as possible\" he wrote in his book, Fake Sheikhs and Royal Trappings. A current journalist said phone hacking was no longer widespread: \"There were a few bad apples who have screwed the paper really badly,\" they said. Another said there was a siege atmosphere at the paper following this week's revelations. \"It is like you feel under fire and it is not a very nice place to be,\" the journalist said. \"We give people a hard time, so it's probably fun for people to see us getting a hard time. If you don't want to work for a controversial newspaper then don't work here.\"",
  "title": "Masters of the dark arts - News of the World reporters used 'toolkit' of tricks",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/andy-coulson",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Blagging and hacking were routine in 'no questions asked' newsroom where use of private investigators was 'well known' by management",
  "id": "media/2009/jul/09/andy-coulson-hacking-news-world",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}