{
  "content": "London, Washington DC, Berlin: in recent months, all three capitals have been subject to massive and concerted hacking attacks from sources in China. While frequent surveillance of other world powers' computer networks in hopes of garnering information is lamentably now commonplace, this can be condoned and explained by the needs of today's information age where the binary code of 010 has replaced James Bond's 007. However, such blatant and perverse attacks compromise not only the national security of three major states but also further worsen already tense relations between China and the west. The frail web of diplomatic contacts was solidified momentarily with North Korea's about-face on its nuclear programmes but any positive momentum to be gained from such cooperative efforts had been all but dashed by the multilateral trade disputes governing China's food safety standards and the US and Mexico's protest to the WTO about Beijing's tariff and subsidy policies. Titan Rain is now the final nail in the coffin for hopes of seeing relations with China improve. Henry Kissinger wrote: \"Equality of status, a fierce insistence on not bowing to foreign prescription, is for Chinese leaders not a tactic but a moral imperative.\" It seems that China will not only bow to foreign prescription but will not shy away from strong-arming the international community into acknowledging it. But why carry out such attacks? Why now? Some may laud the Pentagon's detection and anti-hacking mechanisms for putting a stop to the attacks. This is hardly worthy praise, not only since this is but an uneasy lull in the cyber-war but also since the Chinese hackers succeeded in penetrating the department of defence's network, a scary fact not alleviated by the Pentagon's assertion that only non-critical files were affected. The principal reason may well lie with the People's Liberation Army, China's all-powerful war machine, which has been accused by the Pentagon of carrying out these attacks. The secretive Communist party is putting the final touches on its upcoming 17th party congress, and the PLA is jockeying for position to ensure its formidable power is not threatened. Throwing the odd US or German state secret on the table will not do them any harm. Had they been able to make this move undetected, showing that the billions of yuan poured into shaping the PLA into a modern \"informationised armed force\" had been well-invested, then this might have been a master political coup. However, having their attacks not only detected but then publicised across world headlines will not play well at home or abroad. It may cement opinions that China is fully-equipped to wage modern cyber-wars but it will do little else beyond fuelling mistrust of the Beijing government. Figures place at 120 the number of countries actively pursuing cyber-warfare. This sad statistic reveals much about the so-called unified free market world but anyone suggesting such actions would cease if China was recognised internationally as a free market economy is out of touch. Top Chinese leaders since Deng Xiaoping, including President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao, have shown more care and understanding about today's forum politic, actively engaging in diplomatic contacts to ensure that China's rise will not be too impaired. Yet certain wings of the government, including the PLA, seems to still adhere to Cardinal Richelieu's ideology of pursuing foreign objectives motivated by national interests alone. This is of course true of many nations but when the Pentagon, the Ministry of Defence and the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to name but a few targets, are all hit, a stop must be put to such brazen flouting of international laws. This was not all as Time listed a staggering volume of attacks, ranging from the US Army Information Systems Engineering Command to the Naval Ocean Systems Centre. It was the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, who was first expected to face down Beijing over the hacker issue during her state visit to China last week. Der Spiegel quoted SPD politician Rolf Muetzenich as saying: \"I think the chancellor will find the right words\" but Muetzenich still asked the federal government to make direct remonstrations with the Communist party. In her initial meeting with Wen Jiabao, Merkel brought up the issue with Wen who answered \"when the Chinese government ascertained there were reports saying hackers were breaking into the German computer system, we in the government took it as a matter of grave concern ... We are willing to maintain cooperation with the German government and take firm and effective action to prevent all hacking acts that threaten computer systems.\" This lukewarm response was followed up by a more aggressive salvo from the hawkish foreign ministry spokesman, Jiang Yu, who went on the offensive, saying that China itself suffered from hacker attacks before raising as a shield a Symantec internet security report that stated that found 31% of all \"malicious computer activities\" coming from inside the US, as opposed to just 7% in China. Are Jiang Yu or the foreign minister Yang Jiechi really comparing the high-level attacks made during Titan Rain to the run-of-the-mill viruses made by some computer technician with a grudge? Doubtful. Beijing's propaganda machine is ordinarily a well-oiled machine which makes up in confidence what it lacks in subtlety. But this half-hearted defence by Jiang coupled with a series of articles from Xinhua or China Daily lamenting the number of domestic cyber-attacks China suffers from shows that the Communist party has been caught off-guard. Had such widespread revelations been better anticipated, an improved and more full-throated stance would have been adopted. Nevertheless, despite such outcry about these attacks, Beijing and those responsible in the PLA can sleep easy. What reprisals will seriously affect them? Earlier this year, Russia launched a major cyber-attack on Estonia, taking down the Baltic state's government, banking and press websites. Estonia is a Nato country and a cyber-attack is a hostile act yet no sanctions were taken and the Kremlin used this successful defiance to escalate its rhetoric and actions even further. As far as Titan Rain, it will probably soon descend to a \"Team America\" moment of \"we will be very angry with you ... and we will write you a letter, telling you how angry we are.\"",
  "title": "Cyberspace invaders",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/china",
    "technology/hacking",
    "world/asia-pacific"
  ],
  "lead": "Chris Dalby: The hacking attacks have compromised the national security of three major states - and will worsen already tense relations between China and the west.",
  "id": "commentisfree/2007/sep/05/cyberspaceinvaders",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}