{
  "content": "Oh, Drake. He's probably the first rapper to give both suburban Canada and the name Aubrey credibility in the hip-hop world. He also seems to be connected to just about everyone in entertainment, and oddly to a few figures in sports and politics too. Perhaps one part of his music-driven world domination plan is to give Kevin Bacon a run for his money. Drake works as a \"brand ambassador\" for the Toronto Raptors NBA team, giggles at press conferences with the city's infamous mayor, Rob Ford, and convinced former Spurs striker Jermain Defoe to sign with Toronto FC, for a cool \u00a38m. Drizzy appeared on A$AP Rocky's club smash Fuckin' Problems with Kendrick Lamar, who was beaten to two rap Grammys by Macklemore, who then Instagrammed the apology text he sent to Lamar, for \"robbing\" him of the award \u2013 a move that Drake declared \"wack as fuck\" in Rolling Stone. #SmoothFM Fuckin' Problems was produced by longtime Drake producer Noah \"40\" Shebib, who appeared in Sofia Coppola's 1999 tragic teen flick The Virgin Suicides alongside Kirsten Dunst, who in turn appeared in Anchorman 2 \u2013 which featured a cameo from none other than Drake. Judd Apatow was at the helm of Anchorman 2 and is set to direct Bill Hader in upcoming comedy Trainwreck. Hader's a former Saturday Night Live man; Drake hosted and performed on SNL in January. Bonus SNL link: at Sundance 2012, Drake took a selfie with Parks And Recreation stars Aziz Ansari and Rashida Jones, whose co-star Amy Poehler was on SNL for seven years. Drake duetted with singer Jhen\u00e9 Aiko, who was once linked to B2K, the now defunct Diddy-backed R&amp;B boyband. One of their members, Raz-B, spoke out on Twitter after Chris Brown assaulted his then-girlfriend Rihanna in 2009. Drake, who also dated RiRi, ended up scrapping with Brown in a club brawl three years later. Drizzy appeared on Beyonc\u00e9's last album, with a verse on the track Mine. Queen Bey is of course married to Jay Z who, after winning a Grammy this year, gave a shoutout to his daughter Blue Ivy, gushing: \"Daddy got a gold sippy cup for you.\" Naturally, Drake had already gone one better: he actually drank out of his Grammy the year before. Breaking Bad's Aaron Paul recently took part in 2013's Starbucks Drake Hands meme \u2013 which started after a guy met a girl at the coffee shop, got her number and then sent her a cringey video of him stroking his own face while listening to Drizzy's single Hold On, We're Going Home. Paul and Drake continued their bromance IRL by taking an Instagram picture together in Paris. On his track Too Much, Drake sampled neo-soul crooner Sampha, who ended up on the BBC's Sound Of 2014 longlist alongside MC Chance The Rapper, who turned Drake into a verb on his song Family. Loosely defined, \"Draking\" would be: 1. singing like a Coldplay fan; 2. behaving like the polar opposite of Alan Pardew. Drake's dad, Dennis Graham, is a drummer who worked in Memphis with legendary rock'n'roll hellraiser Jerry Lee Lewis. Drake starred in Canadian 90s teen series Degrassi Junior High, alongside Shenae Grimes, who later appeared on 90210 with Jessica Walter of Arrested Development fame. That show gave us Michael Cera, who in turn was slapped by Rihanna during her cameo on This Is The End \u2013 which leads us back to Drake. Done. Your move, Kevin Bacon.",
  "title": "Why the world revolves around Drake",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "culture/culture",
    "music/drake",
    "music/hip-hop",
    "music/music",
    "film/film",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/instagram"
  ],
  "lead": "Lanre Bakare: Sport, Toronto, politics, cinema, TV and even a meme of his own \u2026 Drake's fame and influence spreads far beyond hip-hop",
  "id": "culture/2014/mar/20/world-drake-sport-toronto-politics-cinema-tv",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}