{
  "content": "Should it matter if Kanye West tweets offensive things? He contributes significantly to modern political discourse, both through his music and in his words and actions. His last album, Yeezus, explored modern-day racism. He fundraises for Obama and snaps selfies with Hillary Clinton. Plus, his music is superb. And yet, when he released his hate-filled Twitter diatribe at Wiz Khalifa this week, I felt especially upset \u2013 even betrayed. How to maintain my self-perception as a patriarchy-crushing feminist when one of my idols proves himself to be so opposed to my ideals? How and whether we should separate the art from the artist is always difficult and often debated, but perhaps even more so when the new art arrives at the exact same time as the bad behavior. (West's long-await new album, Waves, whose title was grist for the Wiz Khalifa altercation, drops early next month.) Convinced that rapper Khalifa insulted West's wife, Kim Kardashian, he unleashed a series of mean-spirited tweets. \"You let a stripper trap you,\" tweeted Kanye, a reference to Amber Rose, the mother of Khalifa's son Sebastian. West has long slut-shamed Rose, whom he dated for two years, often referring to her as a stripper (she worked as a stripper when she met West) and saying that without him, Rose wouldn't exist. As comedian Amanda Seales tweeted: \"Kanye's consistent public degradation of Amber Rose as property is disgusting and petty.\" Kanye later deleted his rant, saying there had been a misunderstanding and he wanted to be positive. I entertained the thought that Kris Jenner and Kim Kardashian lectured him about bringing people's partners and children into an argument, schooling him on why misogynist rants are not to be applauded. Then Rose responded: This made me even more conflicted. I'm a big fan of Rose too, and not just because we share the same name. She does a lot of interesting and clever feminist work around ending slut-shaming, such as her Amber Rose Slut Walk, where she spoke about being criticized publicly by West and Khalifa, and her brilliant Funny or Die clip about the Walk of No Shame. Rose penned a Time op-ed on Thursday about no longer caring when people insult her life choices. She's a public supporter of gay rights. And yet Rose's response is clearly meant to emasculate West. For a hyper-masculine man in an industry full of latent homophobia, to show a preference of any kind of anal pleasure insinuates that he's gay. Rose has a right to fight back to an unprovoked attack by an ex about her and her son, and perhaps she's deliberately trying to hurt him in a way that she knows is the most effective. Yet she still chose to engage by publicly sending a homophobic line. On Friday morning, West responded with a tweet that read as equally homophobic: West's no leader on LGBT issues, but he's spoken out against homophobia in hip-hop before, about how his gay cousin made him come to terms with his own bigoted attitudes. Caitlyn Jenner said West was key to influencing stepdaughter Kim Kardashian's accepting attitudes towards her gender transition. And yet he had to make it clear that he's not into butt stuff, just in case anyone might think he's gay. The question is whether these statements, and their gay-bashing counterparts, impact my love for his art. West is a serious artist and deserves to be taken seriously \u2013 and he's often not, mocked for self-aggrandizing and not being humble about his achievements, as if he should be downplay his immense success in the music and fashion worlds. But if you do take his words seriously, whether that be his lyrics, his public speeches or his tweets, it makes it difficult when he proves himself, of course, to be a flawed, and sometimes offensive, human. Just like Amber Rose, and just like the rest of us, but it's hard to give up hero worship for the man behind the curtain.",
  "title": "Should we still respect Kanye West after his public fight? | Amber Jamieson",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "music/kanyewest",
    "lifeandstyle/celebrity",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "It's always hard to see a beloved celebrity say something disappointing. It brings back the age-old question of whether art and artist can be separated",
  "id": "commentisfree/2016/jan/30/kanye-west-amber-rose-respect",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}