{
  "content": "On Wednesday we published a comment piece about Facebook's recently leaked documents, which appear to reveal Facebook's image and post-approval system. As the writer Rowan Davies points out, sandwiched between \"depiction of sexual assault or rape\" and \"bestiality, necrophilia and pedophilia\" is \"breastfeeding photos showing other nudity, or nipple clearly exposed\". In other words \u2013 pictures depicting babies being breastfed can be removed. This appears to be an active policy, as illustrated by the picture below (but please note, male nipples in any shape or form seem to be allowed): Not surprisingly, this irritated a lot of people on our desk. We wanted to see if these feelings were shared, so we called on our readers and asked them to send us pictures of them breastfeeding. This quickly became one of our most-read articles on our Facebook app, with most readers agreeing with the writer. We received a staggering amount of replies to our appeal for photographs (in hundreds of emails overnight), something which makes our project \u2013 posting said pictures to our Comment is free Facebook page \u2013 quite difficult to handle: we cannot possibly post hundreds of photographs. Nor was it ever our intention to overwhelm Facebook's small moderation team \u2013 the last thing we want to do is behave like trolls; as Davies says, it's not difficult to have some sympathy for the gigantic task that is moderating a site with 845 million users. Instead, we decided to use our Tumblr account to create a gallery (included above) of some of the many wonderful pictures which were sent to us by many mothers from all over the world \u2013 from Argentina to the US, France and Sweden. We hope that someone at Facebook will look at our gallery and agree that Facebook is the real loser here: who could possibly be offended by what they see here? If we hear from Facebook we will let you know \u2013 in the meantime, we'd like to thank all the women who participated and sent a snapshot of their lives to us. \u2022 Facebook have responded to the article with the following statement from Sonia Flynn, director of user operations: \"Like many Guardian readers, we agree that breastfeeding is natural and we are glad that many mothers choose to share their experiences with others via Facebook. \"The vast majority of breast-feeding pictures posted to Facebook don't break our rules, which everyone can read by looking at our statement of rights and responsibilities, so they remain on our site. However some photos, like ones that contain a fully exposed breast that do break our rules, so we will remove them if they are reported to us. \"Our rules are based on the same standards that apply to television or print media and they are designed to fit the needs of a diverse 845 million people strong community which includes people as young as 13. \"They try to strike a balance which allows people to share the things that are important to them on Facebook, including their experiences of being a mother, but maintaining certain limitations around the display of nudity, due to the presence of minors on our site.\"",
  "title": "The beautiful breastfeeding images Facebook is missing out on | Jessica Reed and Becky Gardiner",
  "lead": "Jessica Reed and Becky Gardiner: After Facebook's nipple ban was exposed, we asked readers to send us their photos. Who could be offended by these images?",
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "lifeandstyle/breastfeeding",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "lifeandstyle/parents-and-parenting",
    "world/censorship",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/feb/23/breastfeeding-images-facebook-missing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}