{
  "content": "Privacy groups have attacked the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) for dropping its investigation into BT, which in September emailed details about more than 500 of its customers to a law firm. The ICO told the Guardian that BT cannot be held responsible for the action, in which a spreadsheet with confidential information including names, addresses and telephone numbers was sent in plain text by one of BT's staff to the solicitors' firm ACS:Law in connection with allegations of online copyright infringement. The spreadsheet, which by BT's own rules should have been encrypted, later leaked onto the web when ACS:Law's site came under attack from online activists. Simon Davies, director of the campaign group Privacy International, described the ICO's decision as \"reckless\" and vowed to appeal for a judicial review. \"This appears to give the green light to companies like BT claiming to have a data protection policy, but failing to adequately enforce it,\" Davies said. The privacy pressure group Big Brother Watch said the information commissioner, Christopher Graham, had \"bottled it\". The ICO closed its investigation into the apparent data breach earlier this month after ruling that BT was not liable for the mistake, which it said was committed by one of its employees. BT became embroiled in a wider row over data privacy late last year when the confidential details of thousands of UK internet users \u2013 including Sky and BT Plusnet customers \u2013 leaked online in the aftermath of the attack on ACS:Law's website. The ICO is presently investigating that leak separately from the BT breach, and could levy a \u00a3500,000 fine on any guilty party. It later emerged that a BT employee had sent ACS:Law the details of more than 500 of its customers in an unencrypted spreadsheet \u2013 an action in apparent breach of principle 7 of the Data Protection Act (DPA), which specifies that \"only authorised people can access, alter, disclose or destroy personal data\" and that \"if personal data is accidentally lost, altered or destroyed, it can be recovered to prevent any damage or distress to the individuals concerned.\" The BT users' details are still available on filesharing sites. The ICO said on Monday: \"We have regular contact with a range of organisations regarding allegations of staff inappropriately accessing or disclosing personal information. \"Where it is found that the data controller has adequate policies and safeguards already in place, the usual and most appropriate outcome in these cases is disciplinary action taken by the employer. \"However, where that employee is accessing records for personal gain, such as selling the data on to third parties, the ICO may open a criminal investigation.\" BT refused to comment when contacted by the Guardian. The ruling will add to campaigners' criticism of the ICO's role as the UK's privacy watchdog. Davies said: \"Clearly, BT must be held even partially responsible event to the extent of failing to adequately educate its employees. It is symptomatic of a regulatory body which has become obsessed with protecting corporate interests. \"We will today begin the process of appealing the commissioner's decision and will look in the long term at having all of the ICO's processes fundamentally reviewed.\" Daniel Hamilton, campaign director for the pressure group Big Brother Watch, added: \"The fact the employee responsible was acting in violation of company policy shouldn't matter. \"BT is clearly guilty of rank incompetence in its handling of customers' personal data and should be punished accordingly. If the information commissioner is unwilling to take action on an issue as important as this, how can the public be expected have any faith in him?\" The majority of the UK's largest broadband providers have vowed to challenge the process which legally obliges them to hand over the details of customers who are suspected of infringing copyright following the row over data privacy. ACS:Law had obtained the customers' details from BT and others through a court order and had intended to sue them over alleged copyright infringement. Online activists crippled the London-based law firm's website with a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack in September, in protest at the company's method of pursuing alleged illegal filesharers, which is currently the focus of a Solicitors Regulation Authority investigation. ACS:Law has since said that it will not pursue any further cases. \u2022 This article was amended on 2 February to clarify that no TalkTalk customer details were involved in the leak from ACS:Law's website. TalkTalk has never provided ACS:Law with customer details.",
  "title": "Information Commissioner's Office under fire for dropping BT investigation",
  "lead": "Watchdog ruled BT was not liable for emailing unencrypted customer details to controversial solicitors ACS:Law. By Josh Halliday",
  "tags": [
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/file-sharing",
    "technology/piracy",
    "technology/computing",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/btgroup",
    "business/business",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2011/feb/01/ico-bt-acslaw",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}