{
  "content": "In an age where any small misdemeanour can be magnified on the world stage in a matter of seconds at the click of a button, it is no wonder that despite their best efforts many brands have lost the trust of their consumer. A recent survey by the Reputation Institute found that only 15% of people trusted what companies' communicated in their adverts and 43% were unsure if goods and services were of a high quality. The CEO of the Reputation Institute blamed high levels of mistrust on a mix of critical customers and social media. But the advent of social media is a double edged-sword. It potentially holds the key to brand's success through finding ways of telling their brand narratives in a way that regains the trust of their consumer and goes beyond the simplistic and often superficial 'like' or 'dislike'. The modern consumer is incredibly well connected. A 2013 internet trend report by Kleiner Perkins Caulfield &amp; Byer estimates that the typical smartphone user checks their phone 150 times a day and can spend up to 20% of their time on social networks such as Facebook, Twitter and Instgram. However, in some cases the use of digital communications have cut down on face-to-face interaction and in-store experiences which can lead to a complete lack of understanding as to where most of our products come from. This presents a problem as consumers are not hard wired to trust and enjoy goods made by 'unknown hands', according to a new book by customer loyalty expert Chris Malone and social psychologist Susan Fiske, The Human Brand. Building consumer trust lies both in brand transparency and product provenance. The value behind the provenance and story of a product is beginning to be realised in the mainstream market. Harrods' Made with Love series of in-store events seeks to reconnect the consumer with the craftsmen behind some of Harrods' most prestigious brands. The project takes away the 'unknown hands' element of fast fashion where products appear on a shelf with the consumer having no prior knowledge of their journey, instead reconnecting the consumer with the craftsman allows transparency into the value chain enhancing the value in the quality and durability of the product. Likewise, Gucci arriving at the Chelsea Flower Show with a special edition of one of its handbags and the presence in London of Petit h, showcasing the innovations of the Herm\u00e8s craftsman tasked with the pain-staking two year effort to create one of its scarves, has reinforced the desirability of these brands. The most successful campaigns have reflected digital innovation in these brand experiences. In April, Burberry launched its Shanghai store with musical performances and simultaneously enabled users of China's largest social networking platform WeChat to unlock more details of the brand and event by swiping or tapping their devices in accordance with digital displays. Speaking to industry blog Business of Fashion at the time, creative director and new CEO Christopher Bailey acknowledged: \"I think [story-telling] is important globally, but in China it stops things from being [just] product and starts to give it life. Everything has a story, your clothes, buildings, videos, music: I think it's important people go along with this journey or it becomes a faceless product.\" The brand subsequently posted an 11% sales growth in China for 2013/2014. Evoking brand loyalty and understanding needn't be as extravagant as putting on an exhibition in the heart of Shanghai or Knightsbridge. Instead, brand managers need to find ways of communicating narratives simply at every stage of the value chain around who makes their products, where they source their materials and even the techniques used in production designed to enhance the longevity of a product. In particular, when these stories are connected to sustainable initiatives, this will engage the consumer with the true value of the product, and the human story behind it. Ultimately, respect for production, wages and quality will see a shift towards durable products, made in an honest way empowering the consumer to make responsible choices, to compete not on price point but to innovate on quality and sustainability instead. Diana Verde Nieto is the CEO of Positiveluxury.com, an author and a graduate of the Harvard Kennedy School of Global Leadership and Public Policy. She's also a World Economic Forum Young Global Leader and is a member of the Global Agenda Council for sustainable consumption and Circular Economy Read more stories like this: Six ways for the advertising industry to take the lead on sustainability Nettles, tofu and snail poo: sustainable textiles made from the unexpected Advertisement Feature: Unilever seeks young entrepreneurs with sustainability ideas The sustainable living hub is funded by Unilever. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here. Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox",
  "title": "Social media has undermined peoples' trust  in brands",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "sustainable-business/sustainable-business",
    "guardian-professional/sustainability",
    "business/luxury-goods-sector",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/social-media",
    "sustainable-business/behaviour"
  ],
  "lead": "A Facebook 'like' often doesn't mean much, to re-build consumer trust brands must be transparent about the provenance of their products and communicate their values clearly",
  "id": "sustainable-business/2014/aug/20/social-media-has-undermined-peoples-trust-in-brands",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}