{
  "content": "First, I should tell you, I have never ever, not once, watched Breaking Bad on TV. Certainly, not in the traditional way, plopped on the couch, remote control at the ready. I have, however watched it in the bathtub, on buses and on trains, in my bed and at the kitchen table, on iPads and on iPhones (thank you very much Netflix). Second, I should tell you that when it comes to must-see TV, I am quite the late adopter. I didn't get hip to Dexter until two or three seasons in, when I finally gave it a try on iTunes, gobbling an entire season over a two-day span. Instantly addicted, I bought the next season and the next, gorging myself on all kinds of serial killer excess until I was suitably up to speed and fully prepared to watch Dexter in the conventional manner. As in, appointment television: Sunday nights at 9pm on Showtime, be there or be square. Mad Men got the same treatment, as did The Walking Dead. But the truth is, there's no way I am going to be ready tonight for the series finale of Breaking Bad. That's because Breaking Bad, is \u2026 hard. Don't get me wrong: I appreciate the craft behind it, am in awe of the thespian skills of Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul and Giancarlo Esposito and Anna Gunn and Dean Norris, love the eye-twitching, bell-ringing silence of Mark Margolis as Tio Salamanca. I love being creeped out by those crazy killing cousins. I love falling headfirst into the morally compromised world that Vince Gilligan created. It's a morbidly twisted get-rich-quick fantasy that resonates for just about anyone who's been awake during the Great Recession. You may have noticed by now that all of my Breaking Bad character references are a little \u2026 dated. There is a reason for this: I am stuck on Season 3, episode 12. To be specific, I am stuck on Season 3, Episode 13, minute 17:59. The reality is, as hard as I try, I can't binge-watch Breaking Bad. I have pull away, close out my Netflix app and open \u2026 Solitaire. For me, Breaking Bad is best consumed in small, easily digestible portions. \"I only got through the first two episodes\", my friend Akoto told me via Gchat as we bemoaned our out of touch-ness. \"Too heavy! I'm like, I can't speed through this!\" I don't know why I must break from Breaking Bad while effortlessly ploughing through multiple seasons of the zombie apocalypse \u2013 or zip through episodes of imprisoned women in orange. Dexter's blood-soaked semi-incestous brother-sister relationship with Deb? Bring it. Don Draper's semi-suicidal descent into booze and pills? Hit me with another episode. I can take it. But with Breaking Bad, not so much. Sure, there are moments of levity in this story of the mild-mannered chemistry teacher turned craven meth manufacturer. You can root for Walt and his quest to provide for his family as he battles lung cancer, but you won't feel good about it. As each character grapples with the sliding scale of his/her moral relativity, it impacts another character, usually to devastating effect. Addiction cuts a wide swath. SPOILER ALERT FOR THOSE WHO'RE EVEN FURTHER BEHIND THAN I AM: In Season 2, when Walt makes the self-interested decision not to help Jesse's stoned girlfriend (Krysten Ritter) as she chokes on her own vomit, it has a ricochet effect: her grieving father, an air traffic controller mistakenly crashes two planes. Debris and bodies fall all over Walt's neighborhood, including a disembodied glass eye. Everything here is rife with metaphor, from that glass eye to a pink stuffed animal to an errant fly in the meth lab. I thought about skipping whole seasons just to watch the finale, but I know that I'd be hopelessly lost. So until I play catch up, I'm zealously avoiding spoilers. Which means Facebook must be approached with caution. Twitter is too dangerous. I Google at my own peril. (No good comes out of knowing that Krysten Ritter/Jane was only signed on for one season.) Today, I think it's best if if I don't turn on my laptop/iPad/iPhone at all. Just to be safe.",
  "title": "Don't spoil the Breaking Bad finale for the rest of us | Teresa Wiltz",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "tv-and-radio/breaking-bad",
    "tv-and-radio/dexter",
    "media/netflix",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Teresa Wiltz: I'm hooked on Breaking Bad, but, as hard as I try, I can't binge-watch it. Fellow fans, remember some of us are a few episodes behind",
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/sep/29/breaking-bad-not-watch-finale",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}