{
  "content": "The press complaints commission has told newspapers and magazines they must still respect the privacy of princes William and Harry, after the royal family was rocked by weekend drug-taking revelations. Guy Black, the director of the press watchdog, said all publications must honour their pledge to spare the young royals from media intrusion while they are still at school or university. He spoke as several newspapers today followed up the News of the World's weekend exclusive about Prince Harry's drugtaking with further potentially damaging allegations. Strict guidelines for editors were set down by the chairman of the PCC, Lord Wakeham, in July 2000, before William began his gap year. \"The newspapers and magazines have been extremely good in respecting the privacy of both the princes over the last couple of years and there is no expectation that will change,\" Mr Black said. \"It is important to underline that this was an exceptional matter of public interest. But this does not detract in any way from the tough rules that apply to all children, including Prince Harry, while they are at school. \"There remain very tight provisions in place with regard to interviewing, photographing and intrusions into privacy.\" Buckingham Palace and St James's Palace warmly welcomed Lord Wakeham's efforts to set out how the industry's voluntary code of practice might best apply during William's gap year and university days. Although, by leaving the confines of Eton, Prince William lost the protection of the code's strict rules covering all school-age children, he continues to benefit from its general guidelines on accuracy, privacy and harassment. In return for the media's restraint, the palace has organised periodic photocalls at milestones in the princes' lives. They have included William's arrival at St Andrews University last September and his exploits in Chile during his year off. Prince William agreed to accompany his father to the PCC's 10th birthday celebrations last year in recognition of the newspaper industry's collaboration with the royal family. But the UK press has long been searching for stories linking the young heirs to drugs, following cocaine revelations about Freddie Windsor and Tom Parker Bowles.",
  "title": "PCC warns press over Harry",
  "lead": " The press complaints commission has told newspapers and magazines they must still respect the privacy of princes William and Harry, after the royal family was rocked by weekend drug-taking revelations. By Dan Milmo",
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/pcc",
    "world/world",
    "uk/prince-harry",
    "uk/prince-william",
    "uk/uk",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2002/jan/14/privacy.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}