{
  "content": "The pathetic mewing set off by the \"Don't touch my junk\" airport screening incident tells you pretty much everything you you want to know about the teenage grudge-bearing and solipsistic whining of modern society. This is the revenge of the How-Dare-You generation. How dare you tell me what to do! How dare you look at me! How dare you touch my junk! Sexual assault! I hate you mommy! Am I exaggerating? Sadly, no. The excellent travel blog Flying With Fish has comments from actual TSA screeners, who don't like doing the pat downs either, including this: Yesterday a passenger told me to keep my hands off his penis or he'd scream. Is this how a 40 year old man in business attire acts? He'll scream? My three year old can get away with saying he'll scream, but a 40 something business man? I am a professional doing my job, whether I agree with this current policy or not, I am doing my job. The comment finishes with the immortal line: \"I do not want to be here all day touching penises.\" Relax, 40 year old man in business attire. If you think a TSA pat down is sexual assault then you don't ever want to go on the New York subway at rush-hour. Modern life, especially in densely-populated cities, is full of such minor indignities. Personally, I'd like to take a flight knowing that the plane is less likely to be blown up or hijacked and rammed into a building full of people. Alternatively, I'd like to be able to work in a tall building in New York City, Washington DC or even London without having a 747 flown into it. Don't want to be scanned in an airport security line? Really? Easy: don't fly. Nobody is holding a gun to your head forcing you to take that flight to Aruba. Although if security is relaxed because of the idiotic uproar of recent days, then you might get a gun held to your head on-board the flight instead. Because I like flying and I don't like being on board a potential airborne torpedo, then I'm prepared in those circumstances to have my junk scanned or touched. I've been through both of those procedures at airports \u2013 as have many people. While I don't enjoy it, really it's so minor an issue that queuing for the security screening is a bigger inconvenience. And if the TSA wants to look at x-rays of my private bits, that's what's supposed to happen, right? Otherwise, what's the point? Anyone who's ever got changed in a gym or swimming pool locker room has had more searching examinations. And if you think the images from the new breed of body scanners constitute pornography when they look like medical x-rays, then I have a bridge in Brooklyn available for you to purchase. And if you want to complain, there's an app for that. Yes, there's an official TSA iPhone app that lets you make complaints about over-intrusive screening. And there's an online form as well. And a third-party firm that conducts surveys for the TSA. But why do something adult like that when you can just scream at a TSA employee? It's bizarre that a nation that has largely rolled over and acquiesced in allowing its government to tap its phones and internet traffic \u2013 the Patriot act, a far graver assault on civil liberties \u2013 should get so exercised about this instead. Not everyone has, of course, and I exempt from that consistent libertarians such as my fellow Cif writer Jennifer Abel. The really weird thing is that invasive security screening has been going on for years. So why the outcry now? Here's a clue from Charles Krauthammer, the entirely sane and rational Washington Post commentator: Don't touch my junk is the anthem of the modern man, the Tea Party patriot, the late-life libertarian, the midterm election voter. Don't touch my junk, Obamacare - get out of my doctor's examining room, I'm wearing a paper-thin gown slit down the back. Don't touch my junk, Google - Street View is cool, but get off my street. Don't touch my junk, you airport security goon - my package belongs to no one but me, and do you really think I'm a Nigerian nut job preparing for my 72-virgin orgy by blowing my johnson to kingdom come? Notice how he's packed a lot of overweight baggage into that particular suitcase? Krauthammer has the simple answer to this problem of white, middle class people's junk being touched: racial profiling. And if you really think that makes America safer then that bridge in Brooklyn is still for sale. The scariest part of Krauthammer's piece is this: \"This has nothing to do with safety - 95% of these inspections, searches, shoe removals and pat-downs are ridiculously unnecessary.\" Which means that five per cent are necessary, according to Krauthammer. One in 20? In that case, security isn't anywhere near tight enough. More to the point, deterrence is a major purpose of airport security. How many people it catches is immaterial. Of course if security is loosened even marginally, and God forbid a terrorist should later succeed in taking down a plane, then you can bet many of those Fox News commentators currently berating the TSA for being overzealous will be attacking the government for being weak on national security, as sure as night follows day. I doubt this \"Don't touch my junk\" movement will amount to much more than the \"Don't taze me, bro!\" incident of past news cycles. At least I hope not. In the meantime, opponents should take the ultimate consumer-era tactic and boycott airports. Then you are really putting your money where your mouth is. Well, maybe not your mouth.",
  "title": "The naked truth: TSA can touch my junk anytime | Richard Adams",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/air-transport",
    "law/civil-liberties-international",
    "world/privacy",
    "law/us-constitution-and-civil-liberties",
    "us-news/us-politics",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world",
    "travel/travel"
  ],
  "lead": "Richard Adams: The pathetic whining over TSA airport security is a naked attempt to smuggle on board an unsafe rightwing ideology",
  "id": "commentisfree/cifamerica/2010/nov/19/tsa-dont-touch-junk-airport-searches",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}