{
  "content": "Four more British medallists in Rio \u2013 including two of the biggest stars of the team, the boxer Nicola Adams and cyclist Laura Trott \u2013 have had details of therapeutic use exemptions that allowed them to take banned substances for legitimate reasons leaked by Russian hackers. The gold medallists Adams and Trott, plus the silver medal-winning rower Olivia Carnegie-Brown and swimmer Siobhan-Marie O'Connor \u2013 had details of their historic TUEs placed on the Fancy Bears website. The latest revelations came as the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, said that the leaked documents \"cannot fail to be interesting\" to the international community. The Russian state continues to deny having anything to do with the hack. Putin said: \"It raises a lot of questions. It seems as if healthy athletes are taking drugs legally that are prohibited for others, and people who are clearly suffering from serious illnesses, major disabilities, are suspected of taking some kind of substances and banned from the Paralympic Games. What they did cannot fail to be interesting to the international community, the sporting community first of all.\" After earlier leaks that included the data relating to the Tour de France winners Bradley Wiggins and Chris Froome, it leaves up to 44 other British athletes who have current or historic TUEs waiting to see if their information will also be leaked. In a statement, UK Anti-Doping's chief executive Nicole Sapstead hit out at the \"incomprehensible\" attempts to undermine the authorities' efforts, adding that the athletes affected \"have obtained TUEs through a robust and independent system\". The leaked data shows that Adams, who retained her 2012 flyweight title in Rio, required a retrospective TUE in February 2016 after she was given the steroid methylprednisolone intravenously. The documents also show an earlier TUE application from 2007. Trott, who became the first female British Olympian to win four gold medals when she added the omnium title to her women's team pursuit victory and has spoken frequently about her asthma, is shown to have required a TUE for the medications salmeterol and salbutamol between 2009 and 2013. The leak has raised concerns about the World Anti-Doping Agency's ability to secure confidential medical data and also sparked a wider debate around TUEs and the transparency of the system. UK Anti-Doping has confirmed 53 of the 366-strong British team in Rio had current or historic TUEs and has contacted all of them to say they should brace themselves for the documents to appear online. On Friday night, Ukad's Sapstead said in a statement: \"We absolutely condemn the latest release of personal information pertaining to members of Team GB. It is causing unnecessary and unwarranted worry for the athletes affected. We continue to treat this matter with the utmost concern and seriousness, and we are in close contact with Wada. We have also been in contact with the four most recently affected athletes this evening and have offered our support. We spent yesterday contacting Team GB athletes about the possibility of their TUE data being released and we will continue to keep our athletes and stakeholders apprised as more information becomes available. It is incomprehensible that someone would use athletes' personal information to try to undermine the global anti-doping system. These athletes have obtained TUEs through a robust and independent system. The use of TUEs is not a doping offence, and all of these athletes have legitimately applied for, and been granted, medical support within the anti-doping rules.\"",
  "title": "Nicola Adams and Laura Trott among four more named in Fancy Bears hack",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "sport/wada-hacking-scandal",
    "sport/nicola-adams",
    "sport/laura-trott",
    "world/vladimir-putin",
    "sport/wada",
    "sport/drugs-in-sport",
    "sport/sport",
    "technology/hacking"
  ],
  "lead": "Team GB gold medallists Nicola Adams and Laura Trott are among four more Britons whose TUEs have been leaked",
  "id": "sport/2016/sep/16/nicola-adams-laura-trott-fancy-bears",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}