{
  "content": "Critics of big data are picking holes in its validity as a concept, but there is a problem with their arguments around data volume - it is speed, not size, that defines big data in 2013. Big data is among the computing neologisms du jour, and a technology conference in 2013 is rarely considered complete without a smattering of uses, typically accompanied by further volume-related qualifiers (tsunamis of big data being by far the worst offender I have encountered - other suggestions welcome). Despite having been in use for a few years now, settling on just what is meant by big data appears to be a complex task. As is their wont, various computing gurus (that one isn't confined to tech circles) have come up with initialisms to summarise what they see as its key constituent parts. The 'four Vs' definition is probably the most widely recognised - the letters standing for volume, velocity, variety and variability - and from a technical perspective, this is actually a reasonable effort, but a number of otherwise excellent articles currently making the rounds deal only with the first V. A healthy dose of scepticism is a must when dealing with emergent terms in the technology sector, but in this particular case, commentators would do well to delve a little deeper before setting out to dismantle big data as a concept. Last month we re-posted an interesting and well-constructed argument that 'small data' - or data of the volumes most regular analysts, researchers and statisticians are used to dealing with - is actually both more relevant and more useful to the vast majority of organisations than its big cousin. More recently, I read a well-researched article on just how infrequently the world's data powerhouses - citing Facebook and Yahoo! - actually carry out an individual piece of analysis on data that would not fit onto a laptop or desktop machine you could pick up from your local electronics retailer. The points made in both of these articles are eloquently put and there no obvious holes to be found in the arguments' logic. The problem is, both authors dismiss big data on the grounds of volume alone, ignoring the fact that it is speed, not size that is increasingly driving desire for software and hardware improvements at data-processing organisations. The need for genuine real-time results is integral to ever more analytics use cases. There are, of course, industries where gathering, analysing and reacting to data is nothing new - take high frequency trading, for example. But the list is growing, with information security, marketing and telecommunications just three examples of sectors where speed, more than volume, has been identified as a limiting factor. Last week Paul Maritz, CEO of EMC Pivotal, described a marketing paradise in which customers in a store are tracked and served offers while they shop - insights put into action instantly, rather than retroactively, as we currently see with deals offered at the point of sale. Leaving aside for now the numerous privacy and intrusion questions that arise from such a scenario, the message here is that data-centric companies seeking to gain a competitive edge have marked out velocity as the new battleground. In fact it is just as fallacious to consider speed in isolation from volume as it is to do the reverse - the pair form two sides of a speed-data-time triangle. As the values for data and time tend towards infinity and zero respectively, the software and hardware requirements ramp up. In short, once you really consider the technical challenges facing CTOs, data scientists and others embedded in this field, the idea that big data be dismissed as a term because it's not all that big is - however well presented - verging on straw man territory. Which side of the big data debate do you sit on? Join the discussion in the comments below, or have your say via Twitter to me directly @jburnmurdoch or to the official @GuardianData account.",
  "title": "Critics of big data have overlooked the speed factor",
  "lead": "Velocity, not volume is increasingly what determines the hardware and software needs of data-processing organisations",
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/big-data",
    "technology/computing",
    "technology/yahoo",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "news/datablog/2013/may/20/big-data-critics-overlooked-speed-not-size",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}