{
  "content": "Cheats (or should that be love rats?) never prosper may be the ratio of today's court of appeal decision in A v B &amp; C (No2). A married premiership footballer obtained an injunction from Mr Justice Jack late last year preventing one of the two women with whom he was having affairs from selling her story to the Sunday People. This was despite the fact that the affair had been conducted semi-publicly, in hotels and bars, and their friends and workmates were aware of it. In this morally dubious decision the court determined that even the footballer's solicitors should remain anonymous lest the cuckold wife be enabled to identify a man for whom the term \"away games\" had a whole new meaning. The wife presumably continues to have unprotected sex with him in sublime ignorance of the health risks she runs. Today Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, reimposed morality and overturned the decision of Mr Justice Jack saying that the injunction would be an unjustified interference with free speech. Welcome as this declaration is to the press in this country, the decision raises as many questions as it answers and the law has been thrown into uncertainty again. Just a decade ago, the court declared there was no right to privacy in a case involving the actor Gordon Kaye - better known as Rene in Allo Allo. Ten years later, and with a rapidity that has clearly taken away the breath of some on the bench, new laws of privacy were ushered in by the younger generation of judges on the back of the Human Rights Act. The courts have embraced a fresh and enthusiastic approach to the new privacy law and have enabled effect to be given to the spirit of Article 8, which gives an individual \"the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and correspondence\". The modern law of privacy was heralded by Lord Justice Sedley in Douglas, Zeta Jones &amp; OK! v Hello!. Granting the celebrity pair an injunction to prevent the publication of their wedding photographs by Hello! magazine (they had sold the exclusive rights to the rival magazine OK!), Lord Justice Sedley declared: \"the legal landscape has altered.\" However, there is clearly some concern at a senior judicial level at how far this new right is going to run and that a lack of consistent principles makes for uncertain law. Today the court has picked up a line of argument previously trailed by Lord Woolf in the case of Home Office v Wainwright. That case involved denying prison visitors the right to privacy when being strip-searched in Armley Gaol. The suggestion in today's case that there is not a privacy law in this country throws a welcome lifeline to the tabloid media, who survive on a diet of \"kiss-and-tell\" stories. But most lawyers doubt that this new-born right of privacy will be so easily buried and this case of the wandering footballer may yet be determined by the House of Lords. As we enter a brave new world of restraint injunctions and large damage awards, the courts must urgently clarify the law lest it open the floodgates to yet more speculative privacy litigation. With a privacy law already in a state of uncertainty by the declaration that this country does not have a law of privacy, what is certain is that by taking these injunction proceedings against the Sunday People, \"A\" footballer has turned a story of marginal local interest into a cause celebre. \u00b7 Mark Stephens is head of media and international law at Finers Stephens Innocent",
  "title": "Comment: Private lives?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/thepeople",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "The courts must urgently clarify the law lest it open the floodgates to yet more speculative privacy litigation, writes Mark Stephens",
  "id": "media/2002/mar/11/thepeople.pressandpublishing1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}