{
  "content": "After the over-hyped media build-up came the inevitable fairytale purple prose in yesterday's newspapers, augmented by yet more today. But it was also a return to royal reportage reality, in which adulation was liberally mixed with speculation. And, if I read it right, there was a giant bone for editors to gnaw on in future. We are heading for controversy. Insiders, aides and friends made their entrances into copy as papers tried to fathom the reason for Prince William and his bride postponing their honeymoon. There was little agreement even about the couple's current whereabouts. Windsor Castle, said The People and the Sunday Times. The News of the World - bereft of good sources now that its reporters cannot listen into the prince's voicemail messages - opted for Sandringham. It claimed that the Queen had gone to Windsor in order to give them privacy. The People, by contrast, said the Queen had gone to Balmoral. The Sunday Express suggested the couple were at Balmoral while the Sunday Mirror, more tentatively, offered two other possibilities - the Isle of Mull and the Scilly Isles. The Mail on Sunday hedged its bets with Scotland. Indeed, bookies were also quoted as valuable sources in determining where William and Kate had planned to take their honeymoon. Jordan was the bookies' favourite, said The Observer, adding that money had also been placed on Mustique, the British Virgin Islands and Kenya. The Mail on Sunday agreed. The Sunday Telegraph's royal correspondent, Roya Nikkhah, plumped for Jordan. That country was just one of the Sunday Express's best guesses. It opened up the field to three Caribbean islands - Mustique, Beqyia and Necker - and even offered an Australian one as well, Lizzard Island off Queensland. It rounded off its list with Africa. In other words, nobody really knows. Similarly, nobody really knows why the honeymoon has been delayed. The Sunday Telegraph's splash headline was sure however: Security fears hit honeymoon plan. The Sunday Times's splash stated: \"They have decided to let the media attention sparked by the wedding to die down before departing for a fortnight away at a later date date.\" More interesting still, the same story also confided that the media \"were issued with a warning from St James's Palace no to print photographs of the couple's home in Anglesey in an attempt to secure their privacy and security.\" The plea for privacy presents newspapers with a problem. Clearly, no editor wishes to breach the code of practice - two clauses of which appear to be relevant. Firstly, they should not engage in pursuit or harassment. Secondly, they should show respect for private family life, allowing the couple to enjoy \"a reasonable expectation of privacy.\" That said, say the couple were to go to Jordan? Could we really expect editors not to send reporters and photographers? Wherever they choose, their whereabouts are sure to emerge from local people. Their location will be on the Twittersphere within seconds. Even if Fleet Street ignores the fact by not sending out staff (pull the other one), local stringers will file. Then the freelance mercenaries (aka the paparazzi) will surely arrive. The Palace issued a statement yesterday on the official royal wedding website - headlined with old-fashioned pomposity The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge: The Honeymoon - which said: \"The locations of both their private weekend before The Duke returns to work and their future honeymoon, which will be overseas, will not be disclosed in advance. The Couple have asked that their privacy be respected during the coming weekend and during their honeymoon.\" The cap C Couple was priceless. That, along with the substantive content, reminded us that Palace courtiers still remain quaintly rooted in the past. In truth, though I personally would rather we ignored the Couple altogether, I cannot envisage the British popular press doing any such thing. As The Sun's veteran royal photographer, Arthur Edwards, said on Radio 5 Live last night, there will have to be an accommodation - William and Kate will have to pose for some formal honeymoon shots in order to obtain a measure of privacy. And that would mean, of course, that the location would have to be revealed in advance.",
  "title": "Mystery delay will not deter editors from covering the royal honeymoon",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "uk/royal-wedding",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "uk/prince-william",
    "uk/duchess-of-cambridge",
    "media/thepeople",
    "media/sundaymirror",
    "media/sundayexpress",
    "media/mailonsunday",
    "media/theobserver",
    "media/sundaytimes",
    "media/sunday-telegraph",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/sun",
    "uk/queen",
    "media/pcc",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade: From adulation to speculation - and the beginning of what promises to be a controversy over a married Prince's privacy",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2011/may/01/royal-wedding-national-newspapers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}