{
  "content": "It does not surprise me that Dido Harding was clueless about TalkTalk's IT system failure (TalkTalk boss receives 'ransom demand' after sustained cyber-attack, 24 October). It is quite normal for managers to claim to be in control of IT systems until such time as they are exposed by events to not be in control at all. They typically delude themselves with assurances that \"best practices\" have been adopted. The problem with these best practices for managing IT services is that they over-rely on process and undervalue the importance of individual IT technicians. At times of critical incidents like this (and to prevent them from happening), what is needed are technicians who have over time gained an intimate knowledge of the system. Unfortunately, best practices espouse neoliberal managerial techniques, notably the rationalisation of technicians as system assets to be used for the fulfilment of short-term objectives. It is an inconvenient truth that a complex IT system needs expert technicians who know that system inside out because they have been present as it has evolved over time. The fact that the system was so easily attacked, and Harding was left so clueless about what had gone wrong, suggests there was a lack of such expertise at TalkTalk. Dr Clive Trusson Lincoln Business School \u2022 The TalkTalk debacle has once again raised concern about communications security. I have had one dubious phone call, though it may be a coincidence, as this caller has called me before, despite my registration with the Telephone Preference Service. However, when I attempted to report it to the TPS I found I could not do so as the TPS needs the caller's number and the caller withheld their number. I believe the easy availability of the number withheld system in Britain's telephone network is a major weapon in the hands of scammers. It should be restricted to the small number of individuals and organisations that genuinely need it, and who should be required to register and be properly vetted before receiving this service. This will require the government to legislate on the issue, thus removing a major loophole through which the scammers can drive a coach and horses. Ian McNicholas Ebbw Vale \u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com",
  "title": "TalkTalk system failure: complex IT needs experienced staff | Letters",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "business/talk-talk-telecom",
    "business/telecoms",
    "business/business",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/computing",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": " A complex IT system needs expert technicians who know that system inside out because they have been present as it has evolved over time",
  "id": "technology/2015/oct/27/talktalk-system-failure-complex-it-needs-experienced-staff",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}