{
  "content": "It is a common complaint amongst online opinionists that restaurant reviewers don't confine themselves to the subject. Most, it seems have settled into a style whereby a pre-ordained percentage of the column (72% Gill, 43% Coren) is expended in their weekly aper\u00e7us on general matters and the balance used to review the restaurant.This is cited as evidence of arrogance, self-obsession and lack of in-depth knowledge of restaurants. Personally, I couldn't agree less. As they can't approach the diamantine clarity, precision and dry wit of our own Jay Rayner, they need all the flashy gags they can get and I enjoy a chuckle. Besides which, a restaurant review without the character and personality of the reviewer is a consumer report and I don't particularly want to read \"Which Restaurant?\" over my Sunday eggy-weg. A couple of days ago I received a Tweet from a friend, a reviewer in another place. It was a gorgeous, glittering haiku, rich enough to describe the experience of the restaurant, yet barbed with just enough poison to damn it - an exercise in precise writing, restraint and and the use of whatever Occam had to slice stuff really thin in the kitchen. I wonder if Twitter couldn't have been designed for restaurant reviews. We have all the advantages of self-publishing, digital consumer advocacy and the wisdom of crowds. At the same time we have a medium that prevents reviewers doing 4,000 word posts based entirely around repetition of the sentence \"the XXXness of the XXX perfectly complemented the XXX of the XXX\". We have the ability to collate a thousand opinions with a hashtag and never again have to read that someone's 'companion' found something 'agreeable'. Perhaps best of all we can dine interrupted only by the quiet clicking of twitterers, rather than the endless flash-popping of the plating pornographers doing CSI-style forensic shots for their food blogs. I don't write restaurant reviews - I'd like to say it was a policy decision based on my political and philosophical beliefs about the marketing and mediation of commercial dining, but the truth is that there isn't an editor in town stupid enough to send an alcoholic glutton to a decent restaurant on expenses - but I like this idea. I reckon we could produce some intelligent, useful and entertaining reviews of restaurants within the 140 character restriction of Twitter. The only rule is to add the hashtag #belch so we can find them all and, of course to specify the restaurant with a hashtag too. If you are too high-minded to twitter - and God knows no one would blame you for that, why not try posting a 140 character restaurant review in the comments section below. We'll round up the best and re-tweet them here in a week or so. Are you following us on Twitter?",
  "title": "Twitter: A superior food critic?",
  "lead": "Join our online experiment and start <a href=\"http://twitter.com/guardianfood\">Twittering your own restaurant reviews",
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/food-and-drink",
    "lifeandstyle/restaurants",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/fooddrinks",
    "business/business",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "lifeandstyle/wordofmouth/2009/apr/22/twitter-restaurants-review-food-critics",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}