{
  "content": "Peter Cox, the editor of the Daily Record, returned from holiday today to learn that he has been replaced by Bruce Waddell, currently the editor of the Scottish Sun, following an embarrassing debacle over claims that he had secured an \"exclusive\" interview with Prince William. Trinity Mirror, the owner of the Daily Record, issued a statement today saying Cox had \"left the company\" and been replaced by Waddell. Earlier this month Cox claimed that St James's Palace had given the nod to an interview in the run-up to Prince William's 21st birthday, which would then be pooled among all Scottish newspapers. However, the plan was scuppered just days later when sources revealed that St James's Palace had been \"furious\" to read Cox's claims. \"Bruce has enormous experience in Scotland and has a deep understanding of the marketplace. I am delighted he is joining our team,\" said Mark Hollinshead, the managing director of Trinity Mirror's two Scottish titles, the Daily Record and the Sunday Mail. \"I would like to thank Peter for his contribution and wish him well for the future,\" he added. Tabloid newspapers have become increasingly frustrated with St James's Palace, believing it has not kept its side of the bargain over an agreement that the press would leave Prince William and Prince Harry alone while they were in full time education, in return for official photo shoots and access. Andy Coulson, the News of the World editor, complained that St James's Palace had not kept its word at a parliamentary hearing in March. Cox, who spearheaded an eight-month long campaign to secure better access to Prince William, told the Press Gazette: \"We are in first, and I think that is absolutely right because it was our campaign that got him to that position.\" It is thought that Cox's announcement of his exclusive interview may have encouraged three Sunday newspapers to publish unauthorised paparazzi shots of Prince William. Palace press aides are believed to have subsequently contacted newspaper editors to tell them that Cox's claims were exaggerated. The Daily Record is thought to have been considered for a pooled interview with the prince, but Cox's premature announcement could have jeopardised this - in particular because he had outlined unwelcome areas of questioning, including Prince William's alleged \"loneliness\". In 2000, the Daily Telegraph's royal photographer, Ian Jones, was given access to record the prince's final weeks at Eton. There was uproar when rival newspapers found out, however the day was saved when it transpired the prince had copyright of the photographs.",
  "title": "Cox leaves after royal debacle",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "uk/prince-william",
    "uk/uk",
    "uk/monarchy"
  ],
  "lead": "10.30am: Peter Cox, the editor of the Daily Record, has been replaced following claims that he had secured an 'exclusive' interview with Prince William. By Ciar Byrne",
  "id": "media/2003/may/19/privacy.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}