{
  "content": "Walking the gangways of the All England Club, it's sometimes possible to feel that Wimbledon is merely an expertly calibrated invitation to spend money at a string of retail and catering outlets with a grand slam tennis tournament attached. At any time of day or night during Wimbledon fortnight, the main shop under No1 Court is packed with those eager to spend \u00a355 on a panama hat, \u00a316 on a babygro or \u00a328 on a Wimbledon towel. A series of nine kiosks dotted around the lush grounds, manned by 270 staff, also offer discreet opportunities to push purple and green mementoes to the 480,000-plus ticket holders who throng through the gates every year. Now the executives at the club who have overseen the growth in a characteristically understated, but hugely profitable, commercial operation are training their sights beyond SW19 towards the rest of the world \u2013 particularly the growing economies in China and India. A new iPad app, a redesigned mobile phone app and a new approach to selling media rights in China are all part of a concerted long-term push to expand the Wimbledon brand into new territories. A deal with China's state owned broadcaster, CCTV, has led to this year's Championship expanding its potential reach from 85m homes to 250m homes, while the commercial director, Mick Desmond, has also agreed deals with Chinese regional sports channels and Tencent, the largest internet portal in the country. Last year, the club launched its own television operation \u2013 carving out the rights to an \"around the courts\" style rolling news service fronted by Annabel Croft \u2013 that is broadcast worldwide via its website and through a deal with YouTube. Desmond said the rationale was to lodge the Wimbledon brand in the global consciousness. While the tournament is well known in emerging markets, particularly given the growing popularity of the sport in Asia and the Middle East, perhaps surprisingly it is seen as just another grand slam tennis tournament with none of the associations that come so readily to a western audience. \"You've got a huge emerging middle class in India and China and it's no surprise in many ways that like any other luxury brand, we want to serve content to those markets. But it's going to take time. We need to build our brand in those parts of the world,\" said Desmond, a former ITV executive who has spent time as an adviser to Chinese media companies. \"In some territories like China, they know the Wimbledon brand. But do they fully understand it? No. Do they see us as being appreciably different to the other grand slams? No. It's because the story of Wimbledon has not been told in a way that we experience here in the UK or the US in mature markets.\" Just as quintessentially British brands such as Burberry, Paul Smith, Dunhill and Clarks have had success in China, Wimbledon is hoping to play to its \"English country garden\" heritage in selling its brand \u2013 not to mention merchandising \u2013 to the country. \"We're trying to increase the value of our brand; and commercially we will grow in those territories. We would never put the commercial value at the start of the process and the good thing about Wimbledon is that we take a medium- to long-term view,\" Desmond said. \"I've visited China many times and I know how important mobile devices are. Lots of young people in China live with their mobile phone and their tablet or their laptop and don't have a TV. We have to learn to communicate to very different audiences by territory.\" Desmond said there had also been a huge increase in the number of Chinese film crews attending this year and the AELTC had facilitated a bespoke area and provided them with assistance. There has also been a push to create more Mandarin content, tweet in Mandarin and develop relationships with Chinese media and technology companies. The AELTC already has a licensing programme that attaches the Wimbledon brand to everything from clothing by Ralph Lauren to tennis equipment by Prince and jewellery by Links of London. Through the Ralph Lauren tie up, it operates 95 Wimbledon concessions throughout the US and is expanding them globally. Those behind the new iPad app, developed in conjunction with sponsor IBM, said it was very much designed to provide a sense of the experience of visiting the All England Club for those who were unable to be there in person. And, meanwhile, subtly push the factors that differentiate the \"Wimbledon brand\" to those who may never come anywhere near SW19. \"One of the things we really wanted to do was take advantage of the functionality of an iPad and show people a side of Wimbledon they had probably never seen before. We really wanted to show people what Wimbledon is like if you're actually here,\" said Alexandra Willis, editorial content manager at the AELTC. \"We wanted to make the content of the event relevant to the place.\" Some things, though, do not change. Desmond said the biggest selling item globally through its website was its distinctive and reassuringly expensive towel \u2013 just as it is for those who happily queue for a branded memento of their pilgrimage to the championships.",
  "title": "Wimbledon's commercial machine: today London, tomorrow the world",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "sport/wimbledon-2013",
    "sport/wimbledon",
    "sport/tennis",
    "sport/sport",
    "media/sportsrights",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/apps",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "From tweeting in Mandarin to new deals with Chinese broadcasters, the All England Club is taking its brand east",
  "id": "sport/2013/jul/04/wimbledon-commercial-world-chinese",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}