{
  "content": "An injection of hormones to send your reproductive system into overdrive and the subsequent suctioning out of eggs sounds like a far cry from what any woman would consider a \"perk\" in life. But this invasive and risky medical procedure has been labelled just that. Apple and Facebook have decided to offer female employees $20,000 towards egg freezing. This perk, however, is technically a benefit. Mistaken terminology may not be the issue, but it is important to understand the offer as part of a larger benefits package and within a cultural context. \"A benefit is compensation in addition to base salary,\" explains Tracey L Pirozzi, the senior human resources manager of a global California-based firm, \"while a perk is something that makes a company more fun to work at.\" Facebook's egg freezing coverage is embedded in a comprehensive benefits package, which is generous compared to the standard US compensation for vacation time and health insurance. The tech giant chose to offer it in part because of employee requests, according to the company's media agency. Critics, however, are appalled employers have waded into such an intimate decision as egg freezing. Others accuse Apple and Facebook of trying to dissuade women from having families at all. A closer look at Facebook's employer package might suggest otherwise. It offers four months of paid maternity leave for parents \u2013 exceeding the typical six-week offer just for mothers in the US \u2013 and offers $4,000 to help with newborn expenses. Further, the package is egalitarian: the company offers the same benefit to men by covering the cost of freezing sperm. The offer can also be considered within the context of a country where health insurance is often insufficient and companies are requested to pick up the slack. \"Many US companies offer flexible spending accounts for medical expenses not covered by insurance\", says Pirozzi. Plus egg freezing seems to be becoming culturally acceptable in the US, with some parents even paying for the procedure as a gift to their daughters. Apple and Facebook's stated goal is to attract and retain more female employees in its US offices, but will egg freezing coverage be enough? \"Sorry, but having a baby does not define me as a woman,\" chimes in Pirozzi, adding she'd take the $20,000 and go on a spending spree. Pirozzi hits upon a touchy point here, one raised by many critics. Are these companies falsely assuming their female employees' goals, and in doing so portraying them solely as babymakers while also coldly prescribing family planning? How successful this benefit will be, or the uptake rates, are unknown as egg freezing has only been offered since January 2014. Apple and Facebook are not the only companies introducing radical measures to retain staff. Richard Branson's Virgin Group is following in the footsteps of Netflix and piloting another hyped-up benefit \u2013 that of unlimited holiday to employees in its London, New York and Geneva offices. As a spokesperson explains, \"There are some differences in employment law in different countries, but technically we are implementing the same approach in all three offices.\" While it seems any culture could easily adapt to unlimited vacation, there has been criticism. There are concerns that a lack of clear limits may make employees feel uncomfortable taking any time off. According to a survey by the US Travel Association and GfK the 40% of employees do not take their paid leave as it is. The caveat that holiday can only be taken if the employee were \"up to date on every project and that their absence will not in any way damage the business - or, for that matter, their careers!\" may also put people off. Further, many critics point out that these types of unlimited holiday and on-your-honour flex time perks only work well at IT companies, which have high profits to absorb any related losses. Not to mention, the zealous workaholics whose tech-driven lives are conducive to working a lot, and anywhere at anytime. The success of any benefit or perk seems to lie in how well a company knows its employees, its own workplace culture, and its competition. Egg freezing and unlimited leave may sound far\u00ad-fetched, irrelevant or even offensive to some. Ultimately, what will retain staff is finding ways to make their working lives more balanced and manageable - not about headline grabbing initiatives with questionable long term impact. Time will be the true test, however, and it will be interesting to see how retention rates at Apple, Facebook and Virgin fare over the next few years. Four unusual workplace perks Patagonia offers flexible hours so employees can surf the day's best waves, the times of which are posted in the lobby. InDemand Interpreting will give employees the keys to the CEO's Porsche Boxster for one lunch hour (lunch is on him, too) as a reward for extraordinary job performance. Evernote staffers get $1,000 bonus when you take an entire week off (to encourage use of their unlimited holiday policy). AnyPerk offers employees the opportunity to get a portrait painted of themselves. As a dragonslayer. Read more stories like this: How to build a diverse workforce: lessons for Google and LinkedIn Business and society: defining the 'social licence' Advertisement Feature: Promoting gender equality in the mining industry The social impact hub is funded by Anglo American. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here. Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox",
  "title": "Business benefits: from Facebook's egg freezing to Virgin unlimited holidays",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "sustainable-business/sustainable-business",
    "money/employeebenefits",
    "sustainable-business/engaging-employees",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/apple",
    "business/virgin-group",
    "media/media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "money/work-and-careers"
  ],
  "lead": "Businesses are trying to retain staff with ever more radical perks and benefits but are companies falsely assuming their employees' needs and goals?",
  "id": "sustainable-business/2014/oct/21/facebook-apple-egg-freezing-virgin-unlimited-holidays-business-benefits",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}