{
  "content": "Google is to begin deleting private information it stores on the computers of millions of users, the internet giant announced today. The company currently stores cookies - small pieces of information which help identify users - on computers for more than 30 years. Under the terms of its new privacy policy, Google's cookies will now automatically delete themselves after two years. The move comes as the Silicon Valley company comes under pressure from privacy campaigners and government regulators over its increasing domination of the web. \"After listening to feedback from our users and from privacy advocates, we've concluded that it would be a good thing for privacy to significantly shorten the lifetime of our cookies,\" said Peter Fleischer, Google's global privacy counsel. \"These steps are part of our ongoing plan to continue innovating in the area of privacy to protect our users.\" Cookies are widely used by the internet industry to remember pieces of information about users, including their passwords, preferences and behaviours. The practice is mainly used to make the life of surfers easier, but has sometimes proved controversial: two years ago it emerged that America's National Security Agency was secretly inserting cookies on to computers to keep track of the online activities of surfers. It is not clear what the impact of the new policy will be. The expiry date only comes into force two years after the last time a surfer visits a Google page. If an individual continues to visit Google's websites, the cookies will continue to renew themselves indefinitely. The move is part of a growing attempt by the internet giant to address concerns about its power and influence over web users. Since being founded just nine years ago, Google has become one of the most commanding technology firms. It uses vast amounts of online data, collected from its millions of users, to sell highly profitable advertising on the web. A report earlier this year from Privacy International placed Google bottom of its online privacy rankings and claimed the company had an institutional hostility to privacy. Google responded vociferously to the accusations, pointing to its efforts to overturn a White House attempt to access data on millions of internet users. But recent concern over the use of cookies has been spurred by the company's $3.1bn (\u00a31.5bn) acquisition of DoubleClick, an internet advertising firm which has been controversial in the past for its use of invasive techniques. The Federal Trade Commission, America's financial regulator, is conducting an anti-trust investigation into the deal. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Google yields to privacy campaign",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "business/business",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/searchengines",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": " Google is to begin deleting private information it stores on the computers of millions of users. By Bobbie Johnson",
  "id": "media/2007/jul/17/business.newmedia",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}