{
  "content": "A controversial service which allows connection to millions of mobile phone numbers in an online directory has been suspended, just weeks after it was launched. The 118 800 service, which charges up to \u00a31 to put people in touch with a mobile number from its list, went live in June. Since then it has been deluged with people trying to remove their details from the system. The site had caused concerns about privacy after it emerged it was making available details of 15m mobile phone numbers it had bought from market researchers and list brokers. Consumers who wanted their numbers removed from the site were told they needed to log on and apply to be ex-directory. Those who tried to do so late last week were unable to access the site. Visitors are now told the service is unavailable online and by phone while \"major developments\" are undertaken \"to improve the experience for our customers\". The message says: \"All ex-directory requests made by people in our directory to date are being processed. There will be no need to resend these requests. \"And we will take further ex-directory requests when the service resumes. We will not be taking ex-directory requests by phone or text whilst the service is not operational.\" Last week the office of the Information Commissioner said it wanted to talk to Connectivity, the site behind the 118 800 service, to find out how it planned to protect consumers against having their numbers included against their will. However, a spokeswoman for 118 800 said the site's owners had earlier talked to the Commissioner and ensured the site did comply with UK laws. She said the suspension of the site and phone directory service were a result of \"technical glitches\" that meant parts of the site needed rebuilding and that the suspension would be temporary. In a statement, 188 800 said: \"The high number of queries 118 800 has received since launching have highlighted some technical glitches in the system. To ensure 118 800 provides faultless customer service the decision has been made to temporarily suspend the service allowing for technical work to be completed. \"All requests to be made 'ex directory' that have been sent to the service, via the website or text message, are being dealt with and these numbers will be made ex-directory. There will be no need to resend these requests to 118 800. 118 800 will begin taking further ex-directory requests as soon as the service is resumed. \"118 800 apologies for any inconvenience this has caused callers and will release a further statement once the service is up and running at full capacity.\" The landline directory service at 118 800 is still operational.",
  "title": "118 800 hangs up on angry mobile users",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "world/privacy",
    "money/money"
  ],
  "lead": "Directory service suspended as privacy concerns grow",
  "id": "technology/2009/jul/18/mobile-phone-directory-number-privacy-118800-angry",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}