{
  "content": "Buckingham Palace will today ask a judge to prevent the Daily Mirror publishing any further information about the royal household uncovered by the reporter who used a fake reference to secure a job as a footman. The palace claims the Mirror's reporter, Ryan Parry, who was a footman at the palace for two months before he broke cover this week, had breached the terms of confidence demanded by his contract of employment. \"We will be asking the high court to restrain the newspaper and Mr Parry from further publication of information in breach of the duty of confidence he owes to his former employer,\" a palace spokesman said today. The legal action is a civil action rather than a criminal case, and the palace is seeking is a restraining order, which would ban any further revelations by Parry. A judge will decide this afternoon whether the Mirror should be allowed to publish any further information. However, it is not clear how much information the palace can suppress. The Mirror splashed Parry's story across 12 pages today, including his claim that security at Windsor Castle was even more lax than at Buckingham palace, which was the focus of a 15-page story in yesterday's paper. Parry today claimed to have gained his closest access to the Queen at Windsor, carrying food, mail and newspapers to her private apartments. He also divulged her television viewing habits - EastEnders, the Bill and reruns of horseracing. The Mirror published pictures of Parry with the Queen's corgis as well as the royal family's private quarters at Windsor Castle, including the Queen's breakfast table and a summer house used by princes William and Harry complete with swimming pool and badminton court. When the story broke yesterday, other Fleet Street newspapers rushed to follow up the tale of the reporter who used a fake reference and a heavily edited CV to gain a job as a footman. Parry was still at Buckingham Palace when George Bush arrived on Tuesday night, but the Mirror said it had decided to go public with the story so as not to compromise the security arrangements surrounding the president's visit. The Mirror editor, Piers Morgan, described the lack of security at the palace as \"scandalous\" and said the undercover operation had been in the public interest. The palace announced yesterday it was launching an urgent investigation into how Parry gained a job as footman after replying to an advert on the official Buckingham Palace website. In an emergency statement to the Commons, the home secretary, David Blunkett, announced an urgent review of royal security, saying the vetting process at the palace had not been carried out properly. However, a spokeswoman for the palace said yesterday no disciplinary action would be taken against palace recruitment staff. She added that additional measures had been put in place to the palace recruitment process, and insisted all of Parry's referees had verified his good name both in writing and verbally. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Palace seeks to gag Mirror over royal revelations",
  "lead": " Buckingham Palace will today ask a judge to prevent the Daily Mirror publishing any further stories about the royal household by its undercover reporter, writes Ciar Byrne",
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/nov/20/pressandpublishing.themonarchy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}