{
  "content": "An admission by the Independent's columnist and interviewer Johann Hari that he has lifted material for his interviews may be honest, but it also highlights the issue of just what is protected by copyright in the news industry. Some of Hari's writing was analysed by blogger Brian Whelan, who found that some quotes in those interviews had appeared in earlier articles elsewhere. What has surprised some is Hari's response, explaining his action on his blog. He said: \"When I've interviewed a writer, it's quite common that they will express an idea or sentiment to me that they have expressed before in their writing \u2013 and, almost always, they've said it more clearly in writing than in speech. So occasionally, at the point in the interview where the subject has expressed an idea, I've quoted the idea as they expressed it in writing, rather than how they expressed it in speech.\" If the quotes used were written by the interview subjects themselves, in articles or books, then their copyright is at issue. There is a defence of fair dealing in copyright works, for the purposes of news coverage, but such use must be of reasonable length and attributed to the original author. So the question is whether making something written earlier look like a quote given to you is correct attribution. But at least it is clear who said it. Where it is a little less straightforward is if, as Whelan suggests, any material was taken from interviews given to other publications and written by other journalists. Copyright in news is complicated. There is no copyright in news itself: you cannot claim you have the only right to tell your readers, viewers or listeners about the facts of an event. All you can copyright are the words that you use to convey the facts of the event. So, as long as your competitor rewrites the story, there is nothing to stop them lifting your copy and presenting it to the reader as if it were their own. However, when interviewing someone, a journalist uses skill and labour in recording quotes accurately and selecting those most appropriate for publication. So the quotes in an interview are protected by copyright. If any are to be used by another publication then the fair dealing defence would have to be used and the copyright owner, possibly a competitor, would have to be credited. This is why many competing publications, rather then credit the original paper that carried the interview, will paraphrase the quotes and put them into reported speech, thus avoiding the issue of copyright. Whelan says that the quote is \"sewn together with a string of other ideas [Israeli journalist Gideon] Levy may or may not have shared with Hari\", in which case it may well have been rewritten enough to avoid any problems. Journalists from the regions may well cast a wry eye over this debate and the Twitterspat that has ensued. After all they are wearily used to their work being lifted verbatim by agencies and nationals with never a copyright action in sight. Whether it is ethically correct to present something said earlier in another article as if it were said to you as the interviewer now, is another debate. David Banks is co-author of McNae's Essential Law for Journalists and is a media law consultant",
  "title": "Independent writer's admission highlights news copyright issues | David Banks",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/law",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/medialaw",
    "media/theindependent",
    "media/blogging",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "technology/twitter",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/johann-hari"
  ],
  "lead": "David Banks: Some copyright issues concerning news are straightforward - but others are less so",
  "id": "law/2011/jun/28/law-expert-view-johann-hari-copyright",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}