{
  "content": "When Noel Edmonds chose to meet the student behind the \"Somebody please kill Noel Edmonds\" Facebook group, he took a brave step. And despite the way the story has been portrayed, it's hard to say that the person he met was really a \"troll\" (ie someone who posts online with the intention of inflaming others). Electing to come face to face with someone who says negative things about you online seems an odd thing to do but, when I did it, it changed the way I viewed comments online and the definition of trolling. \"Clifford\", or Clifford49, had become a constant presence on the website of the Birmingham Post, where I worked. If we posted a story, there was a high chance Clifford would be our first commenter \u2013 and he never have a good word to say. It started to become a problem: regular readers would email me to say they didn't feel comfortable commenting on the site any more, in case their words were pounced on by Clifford and used against them. When he wasn't scaring off readers, he was listing criticisms of me and my colleagues on Twitter. I remember flicking back through his timeline, becoming increasingly uneasy as I realised it was almost exclusively dedicated to comments directed at me and the newspaper. I felt targeted and intimidated. One day \u2013 just before I left my job at the Post \u2013 Clifford appeared on a separate site to post another negative comment underneath my work. Something snapped. I had been taking criticism from this anonymous man for too long. It was time to look him in the eye and ask him what the problem was, so I posted: You have been a constant presence on the Post blogs since launch and although I know you are far from being our biggest fan, I know you have taken an interest in their development. It is my last week in the job next week. Do you fancy coming for a tour of the newsroom and getting another view of the work we are doing? I left my email address and within minutes I got my reply: \"Yes, I'd love to.\" It was only then that I realised I had opened the door to a potential axe-murderer with a grudge against our newspaper. I stewed for days afterwards, imagining him arriving at the offices only to massacre my colleagues out of a crazed lust for journalist blood. But, of course, that wasn't what happened. Far from it. Clifford was polite, erudite and entirely unaware of how he came across online. He even agreed to appear on video, explaining how the anonymous nature of the web could make it easy to forget that it involved real people who were not all comfortable with the \"rough and tumble\" of acerbic comment threads: Of course, the misunderstanding wasn't all his. When I look back at the posts he made in light of what I know now, I can see his comments came from a passion to make our journalism better. It was the nature of the platforms and the anonymity they gave him that made it feel like an assault. It is a lesson I have taken with me throughout the rest of my time working in newspapers. We forget that social media is still a new medium for us. There's still a lot we're learning: how to convey the nuances of face-to-face conversations in just 140 characters, for example. How to show there's a reasonable human being behind the avatar or screen name. When people get it wrong, it's just too easy to label them as \"trolls\". Edmonds said after his meeting that the student was genuinely apologetic when he realised the consequences of his prank. That's not a troll, that's a kid who got it wrong. That's not to say that genuine trolls don't exist. They absolutely do. I was shocked when a former colleague privately admitted to enjoying commenting anonymously with the sole purpose of provoking a negative response from others. Getting kicks out of upsetting others is bullying, distasteful and cowardly. When I pressed him about it, it was clear the platforms just made it easy for him to express an ugly side of his character and detach himself from those on the receiving end. He, and others like him, are the ones that will only stop if society punishes them. They are people like Liam Stacey, the 21-year-old biology student who posted racist Twitter messages triggered by the collapse of Bolton footballer Fabrice Muamba and who rightly ended up being sentenced to 56 days in prison. My meeting with Clifford has made me an optimist \u2013 genuine trolls really are in the minority. Most of us are well-meaning, if maybe slightly inept online communicators. It doesn't mean we have to engage with trolls when we see them, but if we can be reasonable and perhaps gently help these people to see the error of their ways, then the internet would be a better place. But we can only do that if we stop labelling all bad behaviour as trolling and see it as I did by meeting Clifford \u2013 the throng of humanity just trying to find a way to connect. UPDATE 16:05 Joanna Geary adds: Thanks to commenters below this piece, it has been brought to my attention that I messed up and have appeared to say it was a good thing that Liam Stacey was imprisoned for 56 days. I meant to say that when an individual chooses to undertake an act of anonymous bullying online, the only way that behaviour will change is if society chooses to punish it in some way. It's a slightly different point. Sorry for the confusion. Here are the links to some of my comment responses: 1 2 3 4",
  "title": "What I learned the day I, like Noel Edmonds, met a 'troll' face to face | Joanna Geary",
  "lead": "Joanna Geary: When people upset us online, it's too easy to label them trolls. We're all still learning the right ways to act in this space",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/newspapers",
    "culture/noel-edmonds"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/apr/12/noel-edmonds-day-i-met-troll",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}