{
  "content": "The problem with a lot of smarter working initiatives is that they are led by people who do not quite get it. They do not understand that the leadership style needed for someone who is not actually in front of you is different from the one you need in the office. This is partly why the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) did some research. Just published, it asks what managers will need for 2020? Some of the results were a little surprising, explains CMI chief executive Anne Francke. \"One of the number one skills they're going to need is the ability to use social media well, and the technology behind it,\" she explains. \"That's going to be difficult because it was one of the things the respondents were the least comfortable with.\" Social media \u2013 whether private versions of it, restricted to single companies or publicly available sites like Facebook or LinkedIn \u2013 is how an incoming generation expects to be able to interact with its employer. Younger people are quite happy being physically absent, so mastering the language is one thing businesses will have to do. \"The other skill they need is face-to-face networking,\" says Francke \u2013 and guess what, older managers do not like that much either. It breaks down the typical company structure and this is not going to be comfortable. Meanwhile, in an increasingly virtual environment, there will be powerful arguments to use more freelancers rather than staff, so this sort of networking is going to become vital. Other changes are on the way. \"Micro-management doesn't work in a virtual, distributed, workforce,\" says Tim Payne, a partner in KPMG's People and Change practice. \"This is particularly the case if the workforce [has] a high proportion of younger workers as they have an expectation of 'output' rather than 'input' measures and don't react well to someone checking their every move.\" Translated out of managementspeak, this means a new workforce expects to be measured on what they have done rather than how or where they have done it. Putting the right tasks in the hands of the right people is important, suggests Liz Poad, head of learning and development at a recruitment organisation called Cordant Group. \"Teams then feel empowered, engaged and connected, despite the distance, which will boost motivation and performance. Entrusting your team to do a good job while lending support to help them develop and grow is particularly important for small businesses, with smaller teams and [fewer] internal resources. \"The last thing small business leaders should do is check up on their workers every minute they're not in office. This will just take time and energy that transpires to resentment and dissatisfaction among the team, especially for high achievers that have been used to working effectively remotely and autonomously. Employees who want to manipulate the system are going to do so inside or outside the office.\" Some companies advocate a particular methodology. Simon Jones is chairman of The Outside View, an analytics startup, and he is a firm believer in analytics. \"It informs the top-down discussion better as the leader will have better intelligence to use in interaction with staff. They will be able to build credibility, focus on the drivers of performance, motivate their people during those discussions and make far better use of face time with colleagues,\" he says. \"The main challenge for leaders of this type is that predictive analytics has the potential to automate many of those discussions and this can be a threat. Either they will see it as making elements of what they do redundant, and hence a threat to their jobs, or that they will have to change the way of working that has held them in good stead for all their career \u2013 why risk their status, bonus and basis of power now?\" Smarter working was never intended to shore up company politics: rather it militates against it. \"At the moment, my smart working approach is centred on empowerment (across every employee in the business \u2013 because the smartest working doesn't happen in isolation \u2013 it's a joint effort),\" says serial entrepreneur Jerry Brand, currently MD of Caternet. \"This is coupled with targets, leadership and good communication. But working smarter is not just about targets and direction. You need to embrace the people you work with and let them express themselves individually in a way that works for them . Of course, such freedom means you do need to keep an eye on the direction, but as long as your leadership and communications are OK, you rarely have to change peoples' direction.\" It is easy to get a little negative about the management of a remote workforce. People tend to be full of what will not work, sometimes at the expense of what will. These things are important though: \u2022 Recruit the right people \u2022 Allow autonomy and do not check up on people \u2022 Have a distinct leader if a smarter working policy is new \u2022 Learn new listening skills \u2013 you will need to pick up on when someone is underperforming or feeling disenchanted, and the tone of their voice may help. \u2022 Consider video conferencing as a supportive measure \u2022 Above all, try to relax any hierarchical management you may have implemented before. There are some things that just do not work when you are talking to someone in their own home or on neutral ground, and an \"I'm the boss round here\" attitude is one of them. Guy Clapperton is co-author of The Smarter Working Manifesto Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.",
  "title": "How to lead a workforce that works from home",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "small-business-network/smarter-working",
    "small-business-network/small-business-network",
    "business/small-business",
    "media/social-media",
    "business/management",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "lead": "Strong leaders bring out the best in their remote staff by giving them psychological space, autonomy and technology",
  "id": "small-business-network/2014/apr/24/how-to-lead-workforce-works-from-home",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}