{
  "content": "It was always going to be a hard sell to the mainstream, though for the tech crowd Facebook's location features were a little overdue. But careful attention to the behaviour on and response to location-sharing social networking websites such as Foursquare and Gowalla \u2013 and an extremely carefully constructed set of privacy controls \u2013 have created a basic but robust location option. Crucially, the whole service is opt-in, though that won't be enough to deter the privacy campaigners who say that we share too much with Facebook, and that the system could be open to exploitation. Here's how Facebook introduced the feature. How does it work? If you access Facebook through the latest update of the iPhone app, you'll notice a new Places option in the menu. If you're familiar with Foursquare or Gowalla (or any of the others) the rest is straightforward: your phone will present a list of nearby venues so you can pick from and check in accordingly. What's new here is that friends \u2013 that is, people you are friends with on Facebook \u2013 can check you in, but you will be asked to agree to that the first time you use the service. If you don't want your friends to be able to check you in, you can click \"not now\" or disable friend check-ins entirely. If you agree, you will be notified each time a friend checks you in and can untag your location if you chose. Facebook's thinking here is that you're likely to be out with friends, and as their aim is always to encourage as much sharing as possible, it makes sense that one person in the group could check in everyone. Foursquare addicts will understand why that's quite practical, though it wouldn't make as much sense to do that on Foursquare as you're effectively competing with fellow layers rather than sharing social information. Check-ins and People Here Now Here Now shows who else on Facebook is at a venue. Users who have set their master privacy setting to \"share everything with everyone\" will find this switched on by default, so if they then choose to start checking in at venues they will be visible to other people at that location for a short period of time after checking in. For most of us, though, we'll show up in Here Now if we chose to check in somewhere and that will be visible to everyone. If you don't like that, you can switch it off. The default setting for all this stuff is to share the information with your immediate Facebook friends. You can turn it off completely, or broadcast to everyone. But even though the default is set to tell your friends where you check in, they will only be updated if you start checking in to places. In short: unless you chose to start using the Places feature on the iPhone app (which is only available in the US for now anyway) you can't broadcast your location to anyone. Has anyone thought that actual real people who are strangers will be able to see us actually sitting in the real venue \u2013 we don't have a problem with that, do we? Of course ultimately, this is about sharing more information, creating more data and making more money for Facebook. But the tradeoff is that this will be very useful too \u2013 it just takes time and patience to learn how to benefit from it. Location will be a standard part of early every app we use, so get used to it.",
  "title": "Facebook Places: how it works",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/location-based-services",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Jemima Kiss: A guide what's revealed and when by Facebook Places, the social networking giant's new location service",
  "id": "technology/2010/aug/19/facebook-places-how-it-works",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}