{
  "content": "While working out a custody plan for their 18-month-old son, Sarah Palin's daughter, Bristol, rekindled her relationship with Playgirl model Levi Johnston. Before breaking the happy news to her mother, who in interviews has previously dubbed Johnston \"Ricky Hollywood\", the couple spoke to US Weekly, who photographed the family in white shirts and tangerine skin against a pale blue sky. \"I hope my mom will accept us,\" read the coverline by Bristol's hip, setting up the reality show pitch beautifully. Reality shows are what love is for. I've learned this slowly. From MTV's Newlyweds, back in 2003, right up to last week's trailer for Katie Price's ITV2 show, in which our heroine is pictured choosing a dress for her second wedding to Big Brother winner and lumpen cagefighter Alex Reid, a man who looks like he's been beaten up from the inside, the relationship reality show is the only frame suitable for the contemporary marriage. One can't underestimate the power of attention. It's a can of Coke Zero in a burning desert. It's shelter from the wind. I dread to think what will become of Palin and Johnston if, for some horrid reason \u2013 doubt, parents, plague \u2013 they decide not to invite cameras into their marital home. I picture him melting like the wicked witch of the west soaked in water; I picture her hair becoming limper, the layers tragically falling from a prime Rachel to a season nine Chandler. Of course they've both dipped toes into reality TV before \u2013 they're human. Johnston appeared on My Life on the D-List and Palin starred in The Secret Life of the American Teenager, but it's only now, with a concise narrative arc firmly wedged in their contracts, that their stars would be able to truly shine. What will they think of next? My inbox overflows with press releases for new moisturisers, new hair treatments, things that will make me look younger. Last week, I received one for 2 Love My Lips, \"the ultimate handbag essential\". It's a lip gloss, but that's not all. It's a breath freshener, but there's more. Each lip gloss comes with a drink spike detector strip inside the box, \"a tool for all modern women in today's social scene\u2026 you simply drop a droplet of the drink on to each end of the test strip and wait. If either end turns blue, it means GHB and/or ketamine may well be present, in which case definitely discard it and seek help!\" First, I laughed. Snickered, really, with appreciation for the truly terrible invention, in the same way I did when I watched the Dragons' Den pitch for the DriveSafe Glove, a glove you wear on your right hand when driving abroad, for which the inventor was asking \u00a3100,000. But then I stopped. This isn't just a bad idea, it's a sinister idea. Like the emails helpfully forwarded from friends of friends, informing you of new tricks that rapists are using to catch you in the dark, I think this lip gloss will cause more harm than good. A friend received one of these emails recently that warned her about removing a piece of paper from her windscreen if she ever left her vehicle in a multistorey car park \u2013 it would most likely have been planted by the man hiding behind the bonnet, ready to leap inside as soon as she unlocked her door. These emails, the thrilling narrative buried beneath a list of anxious senders, only succeed in making women afraid. Similarly, I'm concerned that the emergence of a lip gloss-packaged \"date rape\" kit is simply an exercise in marketing women's fear, exploiting our anxiety using trickery and sparkle. It's not the first product of its kind marketed at women. In 2004, David Burnell from Wales designed a lockable lid for your wine glass. He said: \"I thought about using fingerprint technology first, but the costs were too high so we went to JDH Consultancy in Eglwysbach. Between us we came up with the design of the Drink-guard.\" Then there's the Lipstick Pepper Spray, aimed at \"cosmopolitan women\" and available in \"five sexy colours\". There will be more, mark my dark words. An iPhone app that calculates the level of sexual threat using GPS, football timetables and weather, or one that screams: \"Help\" louder than the human voice can, but when on stand-by mode works as a handy currency converter. I don't mean to trivialise sexual assault, but these gadgets and kits, thrown together for cash like a Ready Steady Cook meal \u2013 a bit of lipstick, a pinch of science \u2013 may have the means to prevent a bad thing happening, but are more likely to turn partygoers into paranoid pre-victims. They're selling our fear back to us, wrapped in plastic. Facebook group therapy In the time it takes to spray the word \"outrage\" on a clean brick wall, you could have set up four-and-a-half Facebook groups. It really is very simple \u2013 let me talk you through it, for the day you find yourself with something to say but no friends to say it to. When you've logged into Facebook, click \"profile\", then \"info\", then \"create a group\". Now type in the name of your new group, for instance: Siobhan O'Dowd, Creator of the Raoul Moat Tribute Page, You Legend!!! Set it to \"global\", upload a photograph \u2013 I'd advise something cheery and photoshopped, keep it upbeat, and \u2013 bosh \u2013 you're off. Like when you wave your child off to study a BA in puppetry, once it's caught its coach to London you no longer control it. Once created, the Facebook group is open to scandal, available for use in any number of news features, debates both political and personal, available to add layers, indignation and time to a sad and dying story.",
  "title": "Love is\u2026 our very own TV show | Eva Wiseman",
  "lead": "Eva Wiseman: Only when celebrity couples allow the cameras in is their marriage validated",
  "tags": [
    "us-news/sarahpalin",
    "lifeandstyle/celebrity",
    "lifeandstyle/marriage",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2010/jul/18/celebrity-marriage-eva-wiseman",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}