{
  "content": "Over the next two weeks, the BBC will work closely with non-profit blogging network Global Voices Online. BBC news will engage with blogging posts from the network, while Global Voices's managing editor, Solana Larsen, will get involved in news production in the BBC's newsroom. \"The idea that citizen journalism is somehow opposed to, or in conflict with, traditional journalism is now clearly past. It's evident that both exist in a symbiotic relationship with one another, with many opportunities to collaborate on the creation of news, storytelling and distribution of content,\" said Global Voices's executive director, Ivan Sigal, about the project. Steve Herrmann, editor of the BBC news website, agreed. On the BBC's editors' blog, he welcomed the collaboration. He wrote: \"Global Voices, which specialises in giving individuals the tools and support to comment and report on the issues that matter to them, could add an interesting extra dimension to some of our news coverage.\" Global Voices is a community of more than 200 bloggers which aims to bring translation and reports from the developing countries. It was founded in 2005 at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard University. Before its partnership with the BBC, it had already collaborated with news groups Reuters and CNN. BBC news decided on a collaboration with Global Voices as part of the BBC's SuperPower feature exploring the special power of the internet, presented by Aleks Krotoski. To take more advantage of that special power, the director of BBC global news, Peter Horrocks, urged BBC news journalists in a recent speech to take social media as an additional source of news more seriously.",
  "title": "BBC teams up with citizen journalists' network Global Voices",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/blogging",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/bbc",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "Mercedes Bunz: BBC news joins forces with blogger platform Global Voices Online",
  "id": "media/pda/2010/mar/09/blogging-digital-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}