{
  "content": "The world of Twitter has its first major champion. In the Turnberry gloaming Stewart Cink tonight gave his 550,000 followers on the social networking site something to tweet about as he annihilated Tom Watson in a four-hole play-off. Twenty hours before he birdied the 76th hole to claim a first major championship Cink was Twittering away about the availability of birth control in the vending machines in the clubhouse. At that stage few would have imagined that he would go on to deny Watson, and the Open, the most romantic of endings. Up until the 72nd hole capitulations of Watson, Lee Westwood and Chris Wood, his greatest victory was the 2004 NEC Invitational and his biggest purse this season was $600,000 [\u00a3367,000] for third place in the WGC Accenture matchplay. A hat-trick of third places, one in each of the US majors, was the four-time Ryder Cup player's high-water mark prior to today's victory \u2013 at the PGA championships in 1999, the 2003 US Open and last year's Masters at Augusta. A respectable tie for sixth at Carnoustie in 2007 was the pinnacle of his Open achievements, while he missed the cut last year at Birkdale. The 36-year-old from Huntsville, Alabama was well in contention at the start of the day, in a tie for sixth alongside his more heralded compatriot Jim Furyk. But whereas the 2003 US Open champion fell victim of an Ailsa course that was in no mood for trifling, Cink shot a steady, if unspectacular, 69 for a total of 278. For the third day in succession Cink bogeyed the par-four 5th, balancing it out with a birdie four at the 7th to go out in 35. His 10-foot birdie putt at the 18th was the culmination of an eventful back nine, which began with a bogey on the 10th. A birdie two at the 11th was followed by a par at the 12th before a see-saw sequence of birdie-bogey-birdie-bogey through to the 17th, where he achieved a par. In the fourth-to-last group the world No33 had an anxious half-hour wait as one by one Mathew Goggin, Retief Goosen and Westwood shot higher than his 72-hole total. But Cink had no time to make a trip to the driving range to warm up and once Watson had three-putted the 18th he was ready to move to the 5th tee for the start of the four-hole play-off. His second shot found a greenside bunker but he flopped out to within 10 feet and successfully holed his par putt to take a one-shot advantage moving to the 6th. Following a conservative but green-bound tee-shot on the 6th Cink's downhill birdie putt was heavy, leaving him a tricky three-footer back up the hill, which he made to retain his one-shot lead at the play-off's halfway point. His pedigree became evident with his first two shots at the 17th, which left him with an eagle putt that he rolled up for a simple three-foot birdie putt. Less than two hours after his last trip down the 18th fairway, with a four-shot lead, Cink was now leading a procession towards the Claret Jug and a first major championship. Now that is something worth tweeting about.",
  "title": "Stewart Cink enjoys the tweet taste of Open success",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "sport/theopen",
    "sport/golf",
    "technology/twitter",
    "sport/sport",
    "sport/the-open-2009"
  ],
  "lead": "The Open champion Stewart Cink began the day Twittering and ended it with the Claret Jug",
  "id": "sport/2009/jul/19/stewart-cink-open-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}