{
  "content": "Keith Schilling is unlike most lawyers. For one thing, he is a member of the Groucho Club. He has an air of a beleaguered Kiefer Sutherland when things are going badly in 24, with world-weary features and what appears to be expensively coloured hair. He goes to a fair few film premieres as well - occasionally he has to take his client aside to advise them on a tricky issue. Sometimes he dines with a very famous person who we couldn't possibly name. Very, very occasionally, he might have to console a distressed celebrity who has been ill-served by the press. Not for long, though - being comforted by Keith Schilling costs \u00a3450 an hour. If you're a celebrity in trouble with the tabloids, he is quite simply the most expensive and probably the best legal advice you can get. Angus Deayton, Jamie Theakston, Ulrika Jonsson, Naomi Campbell, Courtney Love, Liz Hurley, Nicole Kidman and a handful of Premiership footballers have all shelled out his sizeable hourly rate in time of crisis. They have all used him to menace, correct, cajole and otherwise influence the popular press. In the process, he has radically altered the delicate relationship between the stars and the press. Ten years ago, the sort of stories that Schilling deals with would have passed largely unchallenged into the papers and then, perhaps, into the libel courts. Five years ago, they would have been smoothed over, spun and generally minimised by a PR. These days, the stars hold the ultimate sanction: through Schilling they can have the story stopped before it ever hits the presses. He uses a range of tools, but the thing he's most revered for is the injunction. Schilling is, quite simply, the injunction king. He currently has \"probably 10 to 20\" in force, but will average around one a month. His week's work might begin on a Friday night following a call from a client who has just been contacted by the News of the World or one of its rivals. The tabloids are nearly always involved - it's rare, Schilling says, for an injunction to be sought when there isn't one lurking in the background somewhere. \"You see the dark hand of the sting operation. Normally it'll be a telephone call from someone from the dim and distant past who suddenly wants to start reminiscing about intimate things over the telephone, saying, 'You remember me. Do you remember the time we did x, y and z? Now call me back on this number, don't use that number.' It's a very, very transparent situation. \"The press generates these things because they let it be known that they will pay large sums of money for this type of story. The reality is that they don't pay large sums of money, but that's the impression they like to create, so they are creating this market.\" The injunction used to be a desperate, rarely used measure. But as expensive, unpredictable, all-consuming and horribly public libel cases have declined dramatically, newspapers now receive up to four injunctions a month from embattled stars. Schilling hasn't failed often. The only injunction he admits to having even partially failed to secure was on behalf of Jamie Theakston - a story we can refer to due to that failure; suffice to say it involved bondage, hookers and an alleged failure to pay for services rendered. Photographs were successfully withheld from publication, though bizarrely, the words were deemed to be in the public interest. His successes are harder to detail. Footballer X is the most recent, high-profile figure to employ the law to prevent some trivia about his private life featuring in the Sunday papers. A notorious example from last year was the third in a series of stories about Angus Deayton; after his drugs and sex exploits had been exhaustively detailed, the Mail on Sunday was forced to spike further \"revelations\". Keith Schilling was an unlikely figure to end up the darling of the celebrity courts. His mum worked in Sainsbury's, his dad was largely unemployed, but in a decision he can't explain, Schilling eschewed his careers adviser's counsel and headed for the law. At 15, he left school, \"because that was the thing to do at my age where I came from\", and went to work for a Soho firm specialising in media law. He clerked during the days and studied at night, went to college and completed a four-year training contract. He was there for 12 years, but a year after he made partner, he left to start his own firm. He was 28. So far, so John Grisham, except that Schilling is no freedom fighter championing unpopular environmental causes. His early clients, even during his training, included Jack Nicholson, Rod Stewart and Sean Connery. \"They gave me lots of responsibility early on, I think probably because most of them didn't want the responsibility of high-risk, high-profile work.\" Schilling embraced the challenge - he won a \u00a34m judgment for Sean Connery against the star's financial adviser and received \"quite a lot of television coverage\". With his own name over the door, three partners and one secretary (they took it in turns to clean the office in the morning), he continued to make a name for himself in the media arena, largely through the libel courts. He represented Private Eye against Sonia Sutcliffe when the magazine alleged that she had had financial dealings with newspapers to cash in on her notoriety as the wife of the Yorkshire Ripper. She was initially awarded \u00a3600,000, but on appeal a retrial was ordered and the case was settled for \u00a360,000. Since that case, libel awards have been subject to rulings from the appeal court - a major factor in reducing the libel lottery, where a huge cash payout was almost guaranteed. At the same time he guided a post-Prince Andrew Koo Stark through successful suits against \"just about every national newspaper\". She got \u00a3300,000 out of Robert Maxwell - at that point the record award for a claimant. The initial Private Eye ruling was the largest payout by a defendant of its time as well. Schilling was certainly visible. It was, he says, easier to act for both sides in those days. Now he has a strict no-tabloid rule. It would be \"inappropriate to be acting for and against them simultaneously\" - although this is not, he points out, a view that his rivals take. I'm disappointed. Two glasses of wine, switching off the tape recorder and casting the notebook to the ground have had no effect on Schilling's discretion. In fact, it's getting worse. He simply refuses to tell me anything about his clients, and if he does use a story to illustrate a point, he refuses to name the individual. Having initially not cared either way, I am now desperate to know. And that's the problem with this line of work: no matter how often Schilling insists that injunctions aren't gagging orders designed to protect shameful secrets, as soon as there is a secret to be discovered, it takes on a life of its own. Using injunctions to ensure privacy is problematic. They are frequently infringed on websites such as Celebdaq and Popbitch, where message-board users compete to be the first to name both star and story using misspellings and clues to beat the search engines employed by the lawyers. But such orders are costly - at around \u00a320,000 a shot - and, crucially, in order for the star to injunct the story, they have to admit that it is true. This is fine if the judge is persuaded that the information is not in the public domain. But should the celebrity lose the argument, the paper has a field day with a fully admitted story. There are other, more subtle questions about the relationships between celebrities and the press that make it questionable whether withholding a story actually serves the star in question. Matthew Freud, a celebrity PR specialist known for his relationships with the tabloids, refers a great deal of business Schilling's way and thinks he is \"brilliant\", but is scathing about the impact of an injunction. \"As long as newspapers are allowed to report injunctions in tabloid style - as gagging orders - then unless you're being busted for the worst thing anyone can think of, don't go for the injunction.\" This could of course be of concern for a PR company whose business is shifting from cosy conversations with the editor to petitions to high-court judges, but Freud's concerns are echoed by all the interested parties. Says Melanie Cantor, agent to Schilling alumna Ulrika Jonsson: \"The world of press and PRs and agents has changed and you need to take more drastic action than five years ago. It's a shame - it'd be easier if we could just have a conversation. At the end of the day, it's the lawyers who win.\" Piers Morgan, editor of the Mirror, says that the advantage of a PR solution to a PR problem is shown by his paper's recent battle with Naomi Campbell (and, of course, Schilling) over her visits to Narcotics Anonymous. The morning after the story ran, Morgan and Freud had agreed a friendly solution to Campbell's hurt and the Mirror's insatiable thirst, he says. \"It was my idea - a nice piece about Naomi Campbell and the 12-steps programme. She had an option to do a sympathetic interview. Are they better off or worse off for going through the process?\" He argues that with costs of over \u00a31m and Campbell now taking the case to the court of appeal, what could have been a slight has now become an open sore. Schilling robustly defends his and his client's right to protect her privacy and feels that the story was inexcusable; although he acknowledges that costs will run to hundreds of thousands of pounds, he remains confident that the Mirror will be paying them. He thinks that, in general, when the damage has been done, gracious apologies from newspapers are the answer. \"If I was the defendant's lawyer, I would be offering apologies all the time. Readers will respect it. Let's draw the line and say, 'This is what we're going to do.' That takes the sting out of it. But what most of them do is make the apology conditional on agreeing some small amount of damages. So the apology never gets published, the claimant gets infuriated, and the damages are going up all the time because the reputation has not been vindicated.\" Can he give me an example of this in action? \"No. Well, I can, but you can't print it... Oh no, I'd better not.\" Fantastic. Keith Schilling - great lawyer, crap lunch date.",
  "title": "Janine Gibson talks to the injunction king, Keith Schilling",
  "lead": "His mother worked in Sainsbury's and his father was unemployed. Now Keith Schilling is one of the highest-paid lawyers in Britain, a regular at film premieres and the first port of call for any celebrity having a spot of bother with the press. Janine Gibson talks to the injunction king.",
  "tags": [
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/keith-schilling"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/mar/17/marketingandpr.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}