{
  "content": "The Edinburgh International Book Festival, once described as \" a cosy tea party in Charlotte Square\", has been stirred by furious opposition to its new director, Nick Barley. Within hours of being appointed last week Barley, 43, was the subject of a Facebook campaign demanding that his appointment be rescinded and labelling him \"incompetent\". His critics are outraged that Barley was appointed less than two months after the Lighthouse, Scotland's national centre for architecture and design, of which he was executive director, went into administration with the loss of 57 jobs. Founded in 1999 in Glasgow, the Lighthouse was funded by public money and commercial income, but failed after the government refused to bail it out when it ran into financial difficulties. Barley had not been mentioned even as an outsider in the selection process, which began after the resignation of the previous director, Catherine Lockerbie, before this year's festival in August. The applicants were believed to have included Alex Clark, until recently editor of Granta magazine. Barley was born in Great Ayton, Yorkshire. After graduating in social psychology from the University of Kent, he joined Wordsearch, a specialist design publisher. He moved to the prestigious Blueprint, helped to launch Tate magazine and edited The List, an arts and listings publication. He moved to Edinburgh from London six years ago when his wife, Fiona Bradley, was appointed director of the Fruitmarket gallery. In 2006 he joined the Lighthouse. Barley told the Observer: \"I'm aware I wasn't the most straightforward choice, and as regards the Lighthouse, the book festival were fully aware of it and went through due process\u2026 Obviously some of the Facebook criticisms are very hurtful because they are of a highly personal nature, but I would say that the project was very bold and had a funding model that worked in the good times but couldn't survive difficult times.\" His changes at Charlotte Square \"won't be revolutionary\" but he does \"want to inject a bit of spice\". He said: \"I think publishing holds up a mirror to society and we can approach subjects that concern us \u2013 whether it be the nature of childhood, post-Obama America or global economics \u2013 in a broad and exciting way. The analogy I use is that the festival will be like a newspaper, which deals with news in fairly straightforward manner but also teases out deeper stuff in features and analysis. \"I am keen that we attract people not just to established authors \u2013 which we would still encourage them to do \u2013 but also to discover new writers. One thing I was very struck by was that JK Rowling's first book festival appearance was in front of an audience of 30 people.\" Despite his critics, Barley's appointment will be welcomed by many, not least because he comes from outside the narrow Edinburgh clique perceived to run Scotland's cultural institutions. A book festival spokesperson said: \"We are aware that there are some strong feelings regarding the situation with the Lighthouse. However, this is in the past and does not have any bearing on the book festival.\" \u2022 This article was amended on Wednesday 21 October 2009. We named James Runcie as one of the people believed to have applied for the post of Artistic Director of the Edinburgh Book Festival but we have been informed by Mr Runcie that this is not the case. This has been corrected.",
  "title": "Storm erupts over Edinburgh International Book Festival's new director",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "books/edinburgh-book-festival",
    "uk/scotland",
    "uk/uk",
    "books/books",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "culture/edinburghfestival"
  ],
  "lead": "Facebook campaign to rescind appointment of Edinburgh Book Festival director",
  "id": "books/2009/oct/18/storm-erupts-over-book-festivals",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}