{
  "content": "PC Hanif Sanghar was so pleased to have been involved in an operation to catch two vicious attackers that he tweeted he had \"arrested the offenders\", even though the suspects had yet to stand trial. The tweet was deleted and he was reprimanded. Doctors and nurses at a hospital in Swindon were suspended after posting pictures of themselves lying face down on resuscitation trolleys, ward floors and on the Wiltshire air ambulance helipad on Facebook as part of an internet craze called \"the lying down game\". And in America teacher Ashley Payne lost her job after a parent spotted a Facebook picture of her with a glass of wine in one hand and a beer in the other. Reading these stories could give you the impression that there are certain careers where using social media is a recipe for disaster. But while much has been made of the benefits of tools such as Twitter and Facebook to the corporate world, there are advantages to using them in other more sensitive jobs. Those who are doing so say the rewards outweigh the risks \u2013 but you have to take careful steps to get it right. The tweeting teacher Science teacher Rob Butler began tweeting as @cleverfiend about three years ago and has since built up a band of more than 800 followers. He also blogs, at fiendishlyclever.com, and has a Facebook page. \"I'm an advanced skills teacher and do outreach across the county, so I see Twitter and my blog as an outlet to share what I think is good practice,\" he says. Butler tweets links to resources he has posted on his site, questions on how to approach issues, thoughts on new developments in teaching and science, and links to stories he thinks will interest his followers, predominantly fellow teachers. And he occasionally chats about what he is watching on television. \"I think of my Twitter feed as being semi-professional,\" he says. But he is always mindful that parents and students might be watching. \"You have to bear in mind that anything you say is public. You wouldn't refer to an identifiable group of pupils; you wouldn't swear. It's your public persona.\" Butler spends about two hours a week using social media tools, with some of that dedicated to a weekly conversation under the hashtag #ASE where science teachers discuss ideas for teaching approaches. He has gained insights into how to work, used his website and tweeting as part of his ongoing appraisals, and has landed a publishing deal through them. But he says he would not encourage all of his colleagues to get involved. \"When it is most useful is when it's a conversation. The high quality stuff comes when you are active, not passive,\" he says. A pupil once started following him on Twitter, but he assumed he would stop once he realised \"that all I ever talk about is education\" \u2013 and he did. Butler did not follow him, so the pupil could not contact him via a private direct message as these can only be sent on Twitter between people who follow each other. Butler thinks this is vital in order to keep every such conversation public. He was encouraged by the school's headteacher to use social media and has been given guidelines from the local education authority on how to do so. The National Union of Teachers advises all schools that they should have policies in place making it clear what teachers should and should not do in the virtual space. Amanda Brown, assistant secretary employment conditions and rights at the NUT, says: \"What we advise is that the same distinction between your professional and personal life that has always applied should apply to social media. You do not go out of your way to befriend parents or pupils, and if you do so for any reason you make sure that your school management is aware, so it is all out in the open.\" The NUT advises teachers against making friends on Facebook with pupils, parents or even former pupils, and recommends they make sure they have set the appropriate privacy settings to stop their profiles being seen by passers-by. Tweet on the beat While teachers seem to get the most out of social media when they use it to talk to each other, for the police it is a great tool for speaking to the wider public. Ed Rogerson, a police constable with North Yorkshire police who has been tweeting under his call sign @hotelalpha9 since late 2009, took to Twitter because he \"wanted to be able to quickly and easily communicate with residents on my beat and be able to reassure them that I was working to deal with the issues that concern them\". He now has 4,000 followers from all over the world, but says: \"I always feel really happy when a local person follows me \u2013 they're my target audience and it's for them that I tweet.\" Rogerson started out using Facebook and YouTube, posting pictures and videos of graffiti and appealing for help from the public. \"Just a few days after posting the images I received a message naming one of the offenders and giving his address. I arrested him and he admitted to doing the graffiti,\" he says. The culprit received a conditional caution. Following that success, Rogerson made further videos, most of them offering advice on how to avoid falling victim to crime. \"The crime prevention videos I post usually get more views than the number of people I could possibly speak to in person or deliver letters to,\" he says. \"I think social media has a valuable place in communicating with the public.\" As well as tweeting about his beat, Rogerson tweets links to pictures of crime suspects posted on the force's website, reaching people who would not normally be looking there, and, if a crime is very serious, appeals for help. He never tweets about his personal life or what he had for dinner. He says \"self control and common sense\" stop Twitter becoming more of a distraction than a help. \"Unless I'm having a Twitter 'conversation', I don't actually post many tweets per day, and as Twitter limits users to 140 characters they don't take much time to send,\" he says. He no longer uses Facebook, saying he has found Twitter much more effective for his purposes, which remain to inform the people he is working for about what he is doing. \"When I'm on duty I spend many hours on patrol, but some residents still feel like I'm not even there. I hope that with the help of social media I can show more of my residents that I am dealing with crime and arresting people,\" he says. \"Effectively, I am increasing my visibility without necessarily being seen in person.\" Rogerson got permission from his force's legal department and professional standards department before he used any social media for his job, and North Yorkshire police publishes guidelines about what its employees should and should not post online. He has a checklist he goes through before he publishes anything, asking himself questions such as: does it breach confidentiality or human rights? Does it compromise any criminal investigations or breach sub judice laws? \"I never post names or addresses of people I'm dealing with, I never post pictures of colleagues or the inside of police stations,\" he says. \"Sometimes I'll deal with an incident and not mention it on Twitter at all because it would be upsetting to the victims involved \u2013 that's the last thing I want.\" Social media medics In 2011, an estimated 355,000 registered nurses and midwives were using Facebook, according to the Nursing &amp; Midwifery Council. It has no estimates for how many are using Twitter or LinkedIn and other social media sites, but uses some of those tools itself to reach nurses, midwives, students and the public. It says it is seeing an increasing number of cases brought before its fitness to practise panels which involve the use of social networking sites, and offers comprehensive guidelines on how to avoid getting into trouble. Among them are recommendations not to accept friend requests from patients or former patients, not to post pictures of patients or service users, and not to discuss patients even when it's done anonymously. The British Medical Association offers similar advice, pointing out to doctors that \"the ethical and legal duty to protect patient confidentiality applies equally on the internet as to other media\". Anne Marie Cunningham, a GP and clinical lecturer at Cardiff University, uses a wide range of social media tools but is very careful not to cross the line. \"I don't say if I am in the practice, and I don't mention any of the patients I see,\" she says. She once wrote a blog post about how she reached a decision with a patient about whether to take a particular drug. \"There was nothing in the post that would identify the patient but they might have recognised themselves, so I asked for their permission to share the story.\" Cunningham started using social networking tools in 2008 to try to connect with other people working in medical education. \"Although there were some doctor bloggers in the UK then, there were not many on Twitter. The number of blogging doctors has not increased but there are more tweeting,\" she says. Through her Twitter feed @amcunningham she tweets about medical advances, medical education, and links to articles on a website called Behind the Headlines which explores the science behind health stories in the press. \"I like my privacy, so I rarely say much about my personal life,\" she says. \"However, I don't think that my use is about 'business'. It's just about parts of me that I am happy to share publicly.\"",
  "title": "Making social media work professionally",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "money/work-and-careers",
    "money/money",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/blogging",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "In sensitive jobs \u2013 teaching, the police, healthcare \u2013 Twitter and Facebook need to be used with the greatest care",
  "id": "money/2012/jun/08/social-media-work-professionally",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}