{
  "content": "Next time David and Victoria Beckham invite OK! magazine into their beautiful Madrid home, don't be too surprised to see a voodoo doll bearing the likeness of one of the most feared, yet unassuming men in the tabloid pantheon lying on their very expensive coffee table. Unlike those who fill the pages of his newspaper on a weekly basis, the publicity-shy News of the World editor Andy Coulson is unlikely to be seen brawling outside a nightclub or caught in flagrante at a swingers' party at a Travelodge in the West Midlands. But to the celebrities and politicians whose reputation he can make or break over Sunday breakfast, he is both feared and revered. Last weekend, 27-year-old former nanny Abbie Gibson joined Rebecca Loos, Faria Alam and Kimberly Quinn in the list of relative unknowns who became public property overnight through their involvement with high profile figures, as revealed in the pages of the News of the World. As the paper's well drilled legal team fought off a last-minute injunction from the Beckhams on Saturday night, aimed at stopping their former nanny breaching a confidentiality clause and discussing the state of their marriage in public, Coulson was quietly celebrating another scoop. Ms Gibson, Ms Loos - who last year claimed to have had an affair with the England captain - and Ms Alam, the woman at the centre of the scandal that led to the departure of the FA's chief executive, Mark Palios, had another thing in common: they were all represented by PR guru Max Clifford. Ms Gibson is understood to have been paid up to \u00a3250,000 for her tale, in return for which the paper put on about 85,000 in sales. \"The best quality for any tabloid journalist is charm. Andy's charming, great fun, the kind of guy you'd want to have a laugh with. There are a lot of people who will want to appear in your paper, but there's a lot that won't. A flair for deal-making is essential,\" says the former Daily Mirror editor Piers Morgan, a close friend and one of Coulson's predecessors in the News of the World editor's chair. Or, as Mark Borkowski, a PR adviser who has worked extensively with Coulson, puts it: \"He's very straight, very honest. But at the bottom of it you'll find a chequebook and you'll find Max. This is the post-Thatcherite age.\" So when the News of the World swept the board at a booze-soaked British Press Awards this year, winning newspaper of the year and scoop of the year for its Loos story, there were loud mutterings from the other tables. A few days later, the majority of broadsheets and mid-market tabloids threatened to boycott the awards, protesting that the paper's scoops were not the sort of thing the industry should be honouring with its most prestigious awards. \"Let us be under no illusions about that unappetising phenomenon which forms so much of the sensational content of the NoW. It relies on the basest of human conduct, because people are coaxed into betrayal in return for 30 pieces of silver and, in turn, appeals to the prurience of others,\" wrote Roy Greenslade in the Guardian, articulating the concerns and describing the title as \"vulgar and venal\". The debate over chequebook journalism has simmered among media pundits and former editors ever since and last weekend's Beckham revelations brought the issue sharply into focus again. Unsurprisingly, other former tabloid editors believe the criticism is founded on snobbery and prejudice. \"It really irks me,\" says Morgan. \"All newspapers buy things up at one time or another. Tabloid newspapers break most of the stories, most of the time.\" Kelvin MacKenzie, the Sun's fiery editor in its Thatcherite heyday, is also typically forthright: \"It's a load of old patronising nonsense. Even the Daily Telegraph had a page lead on the Beckham story this week. A big story is one that cuts across all class and demographic groups.\" Coulson, despite his private fury, merely pointed to the number of column inches devoted to follow-up stories in the broadsheets. His staff protest that they unearthed the Beckham and Blunkett stories without any money changing hands, through good, old fashioned leg work. It was only after the stories broke that they signed up the protagonists for six-figure sums, they said. Coulson, married with two children, has tried to turn this perceived sense of injustice to his advantage. Despite being a keen Spurs fan, he has cultivated the spirit of Millwall - \"no one likes us, we don't care\" - among his employees. His team displays a fierce, almost cult-like devotion to the paper and its editor. \"One of his strengths is that he has very big ears. He listens to those around him. He's supported by a bunch of lieutenants who are very well connected,\" Borkowski says. \"People are very loyal to Andy, they know he's a very good mentor,\" Morgan confirms. While the managing editor Stuart Kuttner and senior associate editor Gary Thompson ensure a tight ship, showbiz editor Rav Singh, chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck, the notoriously prolific investigations editor Mazher Mahmood and other section editors are encouraged to compete internally for scoops. Deputy editor Neil Wallis, lured from the editor's chair at the People to play the \"hard man\" to Coulson's good cop, is also identified as a key asset. It is his close relationships, smooth patter and \"elephantine memory\" that set Coulson apart, adds Borkowski. \"He is always approachable and that allows you to be straight with him. There are a couple of big stories I've worked with them on where you somehow walk away feeling good about it, even when you know you shouldn't.\" In contrast to Morgan, who cultivated a high profile as editor of the Daily Mirror, Coulson prefers to let his paper do the talking. But, like Morgan, Coulson, 37, is a graduate of the Sun's Bizarre showbusiness page, which in the 1990s became something of a finishing school for future tabloid editors. Aware that the power of celebrity was becoming more and more important in stemming declining circulation, successive Sun editors parachuted their boldest and brightest young reporters into the role. The third of the triumvirate, and another friend and former colleague, is the Sun's editor, Rebekah Wade. \"The trio of evil\", as Morgan dubs them, shared drive and determination, and all have occupied the editor's chair at the News of the World. \"It's amazing how News International continues to churn out these single minded, talented editors,\" says MacKenzie, who employed the three. Coulson worked alongside Morgan and then succeeded him as editor of the page, cultivating the contacts with celebrities, their PRs and advisers that would set the tone for the next decade and become the antecedent of Heat magazine and its myriad copyists. The approach he perfected there - befriending, cajoling and threatening the pop stars of the day to spill the beans - has simply been played out on an ever larger stage since. He spent a year in News International's dotcom division before moving on to the News of the World as Wade's deputy. He was handed the top job in March 2003 when Wade went to the Sun. Coulson's friends agree that he is ruthlessly ambitious and close to the proprietor, Rupert Murdoch, turning down the editor's job on the Mirror when Morgan was sacked. More than Wade or Morgan, he is steeped in the things that define popular culture in Britain today: celebrity, football, pop music and television. Variously described as \"a child of the '80s\" and \"a consummate schmoozer\", he prides himself on identifying with his readers and is proud of the paper's campaigning aspect. \"These stories, the campaigns we run, the way we represent our readers on important issues, I think are something to be proud of. Tabloid newspapers in this country do more for its people than any other newspapers in the world,\" he recently told the industry title Press Gazette. MacKenzie also credits him with broadening the mix of the paper away from the sex obsession that earned it the \"News of the Screws\" tag, improving its sports coverage and signing up the former Tory leader William Hague, who has proved a surprise hit as a columnist. Despite the circulation boosts when it has a big story, overall figures continue to decline year on year. Some believe that Coulson is a standard bearer for a more considered and more insidious form of tabloid journalism. MacKenzie-style displays of aggression are out and Coulson's line of assassination with a smile is in. Unusually in the cut-throat world of tabloid journalism, he is universally regarded as \"straightforward\" and \"genuine\". Coulson's detractors worry about the families of those caught in the paper's headlines and wider privacy issues. But, with celebrities more complicit than ever in building their image through the media, News of the World legal manager Tom Crone said last week: \"The more you choose to live in the goldfish bowl, then the less protection you are going to get.\" Education : Grew up in Essex, left school at 18 Career: Junior reporter, Basildon Evening Echo 1988: Showbiz reporter on Sun under Piers Morgan; assistant then associate editor at Sun (punctuated by 10-week stint at Daily Mail). Set up page3.com, first part of News International's internet empire to turn in profit 2000: Joins NoW as Rebekah Wade's deputy; runs Sarah's Law campaign 2001 election: asks Tony and Cherie Blair if they're members of mile high club Jan 2003: Appointed NoW editor at 34. Abandons deal with St James's Palace to protect William and Harry, claiming royals had not kept their side of bargain April 2004: Charges dropped against NoW journalist accused of smuggling camera into Ian Huntley's cell March 2005: NoW wins newspaper of year and scoop of year at British Press Awards Quote: \"We pay big money for stories. It's the business we're in.\"",
  "title": "The Guardian profile: Andy Coulson",
  "lead": "The nanny's tales of life with the Beckhams, sex scandals at the FA - all grist to the News of the World editor's scoop mill. But behind the chequebook is a straight-talking man steeped in popular culture, his team argues. By Owen Gibson",
  "tags": [
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/andy-coulson",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2005/apr/29/newsoftheworld.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}