{
  "content": "The knee-high stack of glossy university prospectuses sitting in the middle of my room looked a little scary. It was the month before the Ucas deadline, and after a summer visiting uni open days and researching courses, I was still gazing at shiny photos, thinking that each university looked better than the last. But once I got down to it, I soon realised - just as you will - that picking the right place to study wasn't so hard after all, and the effort will definitely be worth it in the end. And these days, there are all sorts of new ways to do your research. In fact, most univerities are so desperate to come across as cool that they've joined Facebook, YouTube and Twitter, and are happy to meet you online. Once you have your place sorted out, you can even use the web to make friends before you get there. So here's our guide to all the new ways you can find out about uni, without even leaving bed - although you probably should leave your duvet behind eventually: it's a good idea to at least have a peek at the place where youre going to spend the next three or more years. The first step, though, is to work out what subject you want to study. Then, once that's in the bag, start researching which institutions offer your course, before working out the differences between each course and each uni and making a shortlist of top choices to write on your Ucas form. Choosing a course One of my friends sheepishly admitted to me that he'd confused psychology and psychiatry on his application, so it wasn't until he was sitting in the first of three years worth of psychology lectures that he realised what he really wanted to study was psychiatry. But choosing the wrong course isn't always a disaster: most universities are accommodating about switching courses, but might insist on particular exam grades, and it's a lot easier if you get things right to start with. So make sure you know all about the module choices involved in the courses that most interest you before you pick what and where to study. The subject prospectus is a good place to start: this is usually available in more detail online, through faculty websites. If you're at school or sixth-form college, you will probably also have access to a careers and further education office with stacks of this kind of info. Read about the course, what it focuses on, the kind of books you'll be reading, and the teaching methods. Does the course mainly use formal lectures, or smaller tutorial sessions? If you hate exams, look into how courses are assessed - lots offer some opportunity for coursework or a dissertation, and some wont have any exams. Other things to look out for are opportunities to study abroad and to participate in industry work placements. Search beyond the smiling photos on university-made documents: those hot students adorning university websites or prospectuses will probably have left by the time you start anyway! The tutors, however, are far more likely to still be on campus, so read a bit about their interests, and note down names of faculty members that you might like to talk to at open days. If you have any other questions at this stage, most tutors and admissions staff are easy to track down online, and happy to respond to a polite email. You can also use the internet to help you to \"experience\" academia without leaving your room. A lot of institutions offer free podcasts of lectures and tutorial recordings via their individual websites or Apple's portal iTunesU. Oxford University, for example, offers downloadable lectures and tutorials at PodOxford, where prospective students can also listen to discussions about courses, colleges, how to apply and what happens in the often-dreaded Oxford interview. If you're a bit of a keeno, once you have a university place in the bag, you could even listen to a few lectures to swot up before you arrive. But before you set your heart on a particular course, make sure you find out about entry requirements. There's no point wasting one of your few slots on a course that requires three As if you're predicted a much lower result. Also, check whether you need to do any extra admissions tests, like the BMat for medicine courses, for example, so you can book and prepare in advance. Choosing a university Once you've sorted out where its possible to study your chosen course, its time to think about institutions. Work out your key criteria first - for example, if finances are tight and you need to save money, then attending a university near your home will mean saving on accommodation. You might also want to look into scholarships and bursaries at different institutions. Most students are eligible for a loan, and many universities offer extra funding. Also, if you have any special requirements, such as needing kosher or halal food, think about that before visiting a campus - sort out your practical needs before calculating the distance from faculty to TopShop. Look at alternative prospectuses, too - these are written by students, for students, so they offer a less formal, and often more honest, view of student life. Some universities also publish a parents' guide, which will answer all of the boring questions about transport, money, and other practical things that your parents will probably be grilling you about. Your parents will probably want you to check out each institutions academic credentials - luckily the Guardian's latest university tables (page 6-12) make this easy. Look into job figures, too: since one of the big reasons most people do a degree is to help find work at the end, it's helpful to look into the proportion of graduates who find work after leaving. Other things to think about include distance - you might feel like you want to get as far away from home as possible, but that seven-hour train journey won't be so enjoyable six times a year - and facilities. If youre a wannabe Andy Murray, for example, are the tennis courts any good? What is the accommodation like, how much does it cost, and, crucially, is it guaranteed for all fresher students? If you have a family, are specialist family lodgings on offer? If you're a mature student, does the university offer good provision for you? Is there a good social life and active students' union? And since youre ultimately there to gain a good degree, look into whether the library is well-stocked for your subject, too. The best way to answer a lot of these questions is by speaking to current students. One way to find them is through attending open days, but you wont be able to get around every one. So use the internet to meet students who are there. Check out chatrooms Check out general student chatrooms, like thestudentroom.co.uk, which has forums for individual universities where you can find current undergraduates to answer all your questions. Another web community, run directly by Ucas, is YouGo, where you can chat to people who are already studying. This kind of site will let you log whatever stage of the application process you're going through, so can be a great way to meet your soon-to-be fellow students before freshers' week. Facebook is also useful: most universities have both official and unofficial groups that you can join to contact students. Visit universities' own websites. Most have invested a lot in online tools including virtual tours, advice, and YouTube videos covering course information, student work and interviews. Many also have online live chat advice services, where you can get instant answers to your questions from academic staff and current students. Don't chuck away your research when youve found your favoured university - keep a note of any other courses that are similar to your top choices but have lower entry requirements. As Dr Clive Groves, an admissions tutor at De Montfort University in Leicester explains: \"We offer degrees in biomedical sciences, medical sciences and pharmaceutical sciences. If students do the work and get the right grades in the first year, they can transfer to the first year of the pharmacy degree. Doing your course preparation in advance could save yourself a lot of phoning around.\" Ultimately, despite all this preparation, your choice might come down to some thing a simple as a weird feeling of fitting in at a certain place. Medical student Chelise Currow, 20, started as a fresher at St George's, University of London, last September. She spent ages looking at various universities, but says that in the end, her final choice was down to instinct. \"I started off doing a basic search for London universities offering medicine degrees, paying attention to the course content, length and on-site training facilities,\" she says. \"Then I compared the cost of living at the different universities, and looked at the universities' alumni and the kind of impact they'd had on their field. But it was when I was invited to two unis for interviews, and walked away from St George's with a really good feeling about the university, that I knew it was where I wanted to study.\" Even if you don't manage to find a single university that makes you feel warm inside, don't worry. Wherever you end up studying, you're going to spend three (or more) years meeting hundreds of people, making friends, learning amazing things and discovering that washing clothes isn't nearly as bad as your mum probably makes out. Whether that's in Aberdeen or Southampton, you're bound to have a fantastic time, so start stacking up those prospectuses, go online, get out there - and good luck with the start of your university career. \u2022 Lucy Tobin graduated from university last year. Her book, A Guide to Uni Life, on how today's student can get the most out of university, is available from 21 August (Trotman, \u00a39.99) Timetable 2009 May Look into potential universities and courses. Start attending open days. June AS-level exams. August AS-level results. 1 September Ucas opens for 2010 entry. Start preparing your Ucas form. 20 September Deadline for entrance into BMat exams, required for some prospective medical and veterinary students. 25 September Deadline for entrance into UKCat exams, required for some prospective medical and dental students. 9 October Last possible date to take UKCat. 15 October Deadline for submitting an application to Oxford and Cambridge, and for dentistry, medicine, veterinary medicine and veterinary science courses. 4 November BMat exam takes place. December Interviews for Oxford and Cambridge, and some courses at other universities. 2010 January Interviews for other universities and courses. 15 January Deadline for most courses. If you do apply after the 15 January deadline, the individual institution can decide whether it wants to accept your application. 26 February to June If you have not received any offers or you have declined all offers, you can apply for other courses - only one at any time - through Ucas Extra. 24 March Deadline for Route B art and design courses, although Ucas strongly recommends that applications are received by 7 March. 31 March Universities and colleges aim to send out a final decision. June A-level and AS-level exams. August A-level and AS-level results. Firm offers are accepted. Clearing opens on results day. September/October University terms start.",
  "title": "University guide: How to choose a course and how to mee universities on Facebook and Twitter",
  "lead": "There are lots of new ways to check out campuses and courses. Universities are even willing to meet you on Facebook and Twitter. Lucy Tobin offers her tips",
  "tags": [
    "education/universityguide",
    "education/students",
    "education/higher-education",
    "education/education",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/youtube",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "education/2009/may/12/universities-facebook-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}