{
  "content": "There's something not quite right about Facebook games. Certainly, the likes of FarmVille and Pet Society have been hugely successful, the former peaking at more than 80 million users. But \u2013 well \u2013 they're not really all that social. You can trade items with friends and visit one another's virtual farms and cafes, but there's little interpersonal contact. In real life, our relationships don't tend to revolve around the exchange of livestock. \"These games feel more like they're exploiting social relationships,\" says Matthew Warneford of Dubit, the social games developer. \"It's known as the reciprocation effect. The game designers encourage players to send their friends in-game items, because the recipients then feel bound to give something back \u2013 so they join the game too. It's just about driving traffic. In order to make these games truly social, you need to give people more meaningful experiences.\" But there is a revolution coming to social gaming. Next month, Electronic Arts (EA) is launching The Sims Social, a Facebook version of its 100m-selling \"virtual soap opera\". In the PC versions of the game, players adopt and take care of virtual people (\"sims\") who live in customisable homes. The Sims Social retains this element but also lets you hook up with Facebook friends and invite their sims around to your virtual pad. If the sims like one another, they'll date and can even end up getting on very well indeed. If they don't get on, they'll become enemies, sneaking into one another's homes, nicking food and kicking over trash cans. \"The meaningful social interaction is more powerful than asking one another for cows,\" says John Earner, general manager of Playfish, EA's social game studio. \"A few very early social games, most notably Friends For Sale, capitalised upon relationships, but they hadn't figured out how to make a sticky, persistent game with depth and longevity. With The Sims Social, we think we have done that.\" These computerised relationships are then broadcast on your Facebook walls so everyone knows what your characters have been up to with each other. As with massively multiplayer games such as World of Warcraft (where many a husband or wife has discovered that their spouse has married an onscreen elf), this will doubtless lead to intriguing social conundrums. If you're married, is it OK for your sim to be dating several of your friends' virtual characters? More importantly, The Sims Social hints at a future in which Facebook games leverage our online relationships as part of the gaming experience. MTV has already commissioned a range of Facebook dating sims, such as The Flirt Game, which offer highly focused ways to chat up other social media users. But there are more complex examples coming. The creators of the photo-sharing site Flickr are beta-testing Glitch, a massive multiplayer social game set within the minds of giants on a surreal world. Players must work together to solve the mystery of their environment, and it is all hooked into Facebook. Warneford reckons this is the future of social gaming: simple puzzles for friends to solve together, and learn about one another in the process. \"Social games are becoming more focused on how they can give the experience more purpose. How can we create a narrative? How can we allow players to collaborate? We're moving beyond simply taking advantage of friendships, into strengthening them.\"",
  "title": "See what happens when your sims get off with your Facebook friends",
  "lead": "The new generation of social games aim to do more for your online relationships, rather than just exploiting them, writes Keith Stuart ",
  "tags": [
    "technology/simulation-games",
    "technology/gameculture",
    "technology/games",
    "technology/sexingames",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2011/aug/07/your-sims-meet-your-facebook-friends",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}