{
  "content": "Two more well-known women on Twitter have received bomb threats, as the historian Mary Beard called for repeated threats of violence and death against her and other women using the site to be distinguished from mere abuse. The journalists India Knight and Laurie Penny became the latest users to receive bomb threats after similar tweets were also sent to campaigner and writer Caroline Criado-Perez, and the Labour MP Stella Creasy, as the campaign of attacks on Twitter against women who highlight online abuse continued. Penny, who expressed her frustration at having to waste part of her working day reporting the threat, tweeted a screenshot of it and later told followers: \"Police are here now and being very helpful. Am being advised to stay elsewhere tonight; have already sorted that out.\" Knight meanwhile tweeted : \"Very grateful to @metpoliceuk, but officers wouldn't have to waste their time if @twitter could deal w this crap.\" Beard, who contacted police on Sunday after receiving a message claiming a bomb had been left outside her home, told BBC Breakfast today that she has since received further threats on Twitter claiming that the originals were \"just a practice run\". Guardian columnist Hadley Freeman, Independent columnist Grace Dent and Europe editor of Time magazine Catherine Mayer, as well as a number of other women, have previously said they had been the subject of bomb threats on the site, while a number have received threats of rape. Beard said: \"I've had lots of abuse, but only recently have I had these things actually threatening violence rape and death. \"I think we've got to be quite careful about drawing a distinction between those things because abuse is very nasty, it's sexist, it's misogynist but I think in some ways you can cope with that by naming and shaming. \"That's what I have quite often done \u2013 earlier this week I retweeted one lad's Twitter threat and someone threatened to tell his mum and that sort of solved it. \"I think you have to be absolutely clear that these threats that have been coming to me and to other women and also, I have to say, to women who aren't lucky or unlucky enough to be in the public eye \u2013 these are criminal threats, they are threats of violence and death and all you can do is take them to the police. \"There is no two ways about it, threatening to kill someone is a crime and that's what I and other people have done and I hope other women who get these threats will do the same.\" Beard said that although Twitter had been slow off the mark to address the issue, she was happy with the support she received from the site in the last 24 hours. Tony Wang, Twitter's UK general manager, posted a series of tweets yesterday saying abuse was \"simply not acceptable\". His messages came after the website clarified its rules on abusive behaviour and put extra staff in place to handle reports of abuse. Scotland Yard said that it has launched an investigation into eight allegations of online abuse and threats. \"Detectives from the specialist organised &amp; economic crime command have taken responsibility for the investigations into a number of allegations recently made to the MPS relating to allegations of malicious communication made on the social networking site Twitter,\" the Met said in a statement. \"The police central e-crime unit (PCeU), who hold the police national cybercrime remit, is now investigating allegations made by eight people that they have been subject to harassment, malicious communication or bomb threats.\"",
  "title": "Twitter bomb threats made against more women in public eye",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/cyberbullying",
    "society/society"
  ],
  "lead": "Journalists India Knight and Laurie Penny latest to get death threats as police respond to online abuse",
  "id": "technology/2013/aug/05/twitter-bomb-threats-women",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}