{
  "content": "More than a decade has passed since an awkward young Harvard student called Mark Zuckerberg blundered his way through dates with the young women of Cambridge, Massachusetts, distracted by his own ambition for professional success. He has since built one of the world's most valuable firms and accumulated a fortune of more than $19bn (\u00a311.4bn). Yet this Valentine's Day, the 29-year-old Facebook supremo still only made it through the main course of a romantic dinner with his wife, Priscilla Chan, at their home in California, before work interrupted once again. The object of his affection this time was WhatsApp, a scrappy instant messaging application for smartphones that had become one of the most keenly courted upstarts in Silicon Valley. Its owners had already resisted the advances of Google, Zuckerberg's formidable rival suitor. And over chocolate-covered strawberries that were intended for Chan, Zuckerberg agreed with Jan Koum, WhatsApp's chief executive, the terms of a $19bn takeover that when announced last week astonished even seasoned watchers of an industry where cheques packed with zeros fly like paper planes. The extraordinary price tag, bigger than any previous deal for a venture-capital-backed startup, made billionaires of Koum, a Ukrainian immigrant who once lived on benefits and who turns 38 on 24 February and his co-founder, Brian Acton, 42, who met as engineers at Yahoo! in the late 1990s. Yet it also amplified warnings that in fighting an acquisitions arms race, the technology giants may be inflating another dotcom bubble without pausing to work out how firms such as WhatsApp \u2013 whose 450m users pay little or nothing for the privilege \u2013 might turn a profit. It is a gamble that has unnerved some of Zuckerberg's backers. The bullish insist he got a bargain. This little app might not even exist if Zuckerberg had only hired Koum and Acton when they applied to work for him more than four years ago. \"Facebook turned me down,\" Acton lamented on Twitter \u2013 which had itself already told him \"no\" \u2013 in August 2009. \"Looking forward to life's next adventure.\" He did not have to wait very long. Within three months, Acton had joined forces with Koum to help kick-start his former colleague's idea for an entry in the marketplace for mobile phone apps. It had enjoyed a slow-burn success since its launch earlier that year. WhatsApp was already established as the name. However, instant messaging, which was at the time still almost completely dominated by the humble SMS, was not, in fact, its big idea. The point was simply for users to update their friends on what they were doing: \"Working in the library\"'; \"At the dentist's.\" But unlike on Facebook and Twitter, where such updates would quickly be overtaken by newer ones, these would sit still. Indeed, the messaging part happened quite by accident. When Apple updated its iPhones to allow notifications to be \"pushed\" on to screens, WhatsApp statuses began popping up like text messages. Only when the app's small crowd of users started firing volleys of statuses back and forth did Koum realise quite what he had created. A second version of the app, fully adjusted to its adopted use as a messaging system, was soon released. Then still free to download, it was swiftly gobbled up by a quarter-of-a-million users eager to exchange dozens of messages between multiple friends every day, but restricted to a limited number of texts by their monthly mobile phone contract. WhatsApp, by contrast, uses surrounding wifi or the user's mobile data allowance. Acton, still out of work, got on board. Over kitchen-table briefings, the pair persuaded five friends to invest $250,000 in the project. They kept tweaking to offer extra value over SMS, allowing users to send pictures and short audio recordings, and implementing the app's distinctive \"double tick\" feature that alerts jittery senders when their message has been read. By 2011, it had become one of the world's 20 most-downloaded apps and the big time beckoned. The pair raised $8m in financing from Sequoia Capital for a stake believed to amount to between 10% and 20%, which translated to an estimated $3bn payday for the financiers last week. Koum, who signed his paperwork for the deal against the door of the building in Mountain View where his family once collected government food stamps, is believed to have made more than $6.5bn. Acton, who took a smaller share of the firm when he joined, is now said to be worth around half that. The firm's 55 employees will also collect millions. Facebook has predictably styled the deal, which comprises $4bn in cash, $12bn worth of Facebook shares and another $3bn in restricted stock, as a play of strength. \"WhatsApp is on a path to connect a billion people,\" said Zuckerberg, whose own site passed that mark long ago. \"The services that reach that milestone are all incredibly valuable.\" WhatsApp users share trillions of messages and 600m photographs every day. Facebook is paying the equivalent of about $42 per WhatsApp user, while based on the rival companies' share prices, each LinkedIn user is worth about $153 and each Twitter user about $140. \"Looking past the sticker shock of $19bn, we view it as an offensive move to gain additional share of the consumer's time spent,\" Credit Suisse said in an analysis. Yet some analysts see the young internet visionary operating from a defensive crouch forced by a stagnation in new sign-ups, particularly among younger users. He paid about the same for a firm \u2013 whose only source of revenue is a 99 cent annual fee (which millions of early adopters escape) \u2013 as the present value of companies such as Sony or Gap. In areas where Zuckerberg is having particular trouble, such as Latin America, India and Asia, WhatsApp is the leading messaging service. The acquisition will give him the access to millions of users in these regions \u2013 and to their mobile phones \u2013 which he has struggled to secure. \"This is the price Facebook has paid to take out its potential replacement,\" said Alan Patrick, an analyst at the media consultants Broadsight. \"But it will be very expensive to keep buying out the guys who could eat their lunch.\" The purchase must also be viewed in the context of the high-stakes battle being waged between Zuckerberg and Larry Page, his opposite number at Google, for the prize of users and their eyeballs, across which lucrative streams of advertising can be delivered. \"The focus must be on the cost of Facebook not buying WhatsApp rather than the price Facebook paid for WhatsApp,\" said Jack Kent, an analyst at IHS Technology, who said Zuckerberg \"could not risk WhatsApp's 450m monthly and 315m daily active users falling into the hands of a competitor, such as Google.\" Facebook picked up Instagram, the photo-sharing app, in 2012 for $1bn, a price that dropped jaws at the time yet now seems like a steal, and attempted to buy Snapchat, the tiny self-destructing photo-messaging app popular among younger users, for $3bn. Google, which saw way back in 2006 that it was worth bringing YouTube, the video-sharing site, into its empire for $1.65bn, paid $3.2bn last year for Nest Labs, a maker of smart thermostats and smoke alarms and a leader in the \"internet of things\" predicted to increasingly dominate our everyday lives. But with a 14-year high of $42.4bn-worth of mergers and acquisitions agreed in the first two months of 2014, concerns are mounting that an overcooked technology industry could see a repeat of the 2000 crash, when shareholders fearful that their investments would fail to see returns pulled their money out. And despite all the smiles last week, significant sticking points remain between the new partners. While Facebook depends on sophisticated targeted onscreen advertising and a cut from the sale of games played by users within the site, Koum has worked for some time under a handwritten note taped to his desk declaring: \"No Ads! No Games! No Gimmicks!\" And as Facebook has faced repeated criticism for tweaking its security protocols to allow it to harvest more lucrative information about its users, WhatsApp has pledged never to do the same. \"It's a decidedly contrarian approach shaped by Jan's experience growing up in a communist country with a secret police,\" said Jim Goetz, a partner at Sequoia Capital. \"Jan's childhood made him appreciate communication that was not bugged or taped.\" Zuckerberg has promised to leave his new subsidiary be \u2013 for now. \"He made it very clear that they are committed to not make changes to the user experience by introducing ads,\" Koum told the Wall Street Journal. \"He positioned it more as WhatsApp will stay completely independent and autonomous.\" Still, he has 19 billion reasons to change his mind.",
  "title": "WhatsApp \u2013 what's next? | Jon Swaine",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/whatsapp",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/apps",
    "technology/mark-zuckerberg",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/google",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world",
    "technology/chat-messaging-apps"
  ],
  "lead": "Profile: The popular and ad-free texting service has been snapped up for $19bn, making a fortune for its founders. But does this acquisition by Facebook make economic sense or is it just a salvo in its hi-tech 'arms race' with Google?",
  "id": "theobserver/2014/feb/23/profile-whatsapp-facebook-takeover",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}