{
  "content": "It sounds like a scene from the Tom Cruise futuristic thriller Minority Report. A teenager enters a record shop and a scanner hidden in the doorway instantly reads data secreted in electronic tags embedded in his clothes. The scanner clocks the brand of clothing and where it was purchased, flashing to a database which analyses what type of person would have bought that line of clothing and predicts what other products that person would like to buy. In an instant, adverts for those products are beamed to eye-level billboards for the teenager to see. But while Minority Report portrayed the world as sci-fi visionary Philip K Dick imagined it in 2054, a new report predicts that such scenes will be commonplace in Britain in just 10 years' time. Today, Richard Thomas, the watchdog entrusted by the government to protect people's privacy, sounds a strong warning that Britain is \"waking up to a surveillance society that is all around us\". The information commissioner warns that technology is already being extensively and routinely used to track and record the everyday activities and movements of Britons, whether they are working, resting or playing. He is also warning that such \"pervasive\" surveillance is likely to spread in the coming years. The first scenario of personally targeted advertising - already familiar to online shoppers on Amazon or iTunes - reveals how surveillance technology is a boon for commerce. But the potential for more sinister intrusion is also outlined in the 135-page report. In another scenario, a man drives out of his gated community and a machine records his exact departure time and the number and identity of his passengers. Under pay-as-you-drive regulations brought in to ease congestion, the man's bank account is charged automatically for every mile he travels in his car. Thousands of discreetly placed CCTV cameras, controlled by private companies and the government, monitor his journey. Remote-control spy planes fly overhead relaying images from the streets back to police. Mr Thomas is worried that many people do not realise that they are being watched, since the surveillance is often invisible or discreet. He has commissioned a report from experts to predict how technologies are likely to be used to keep tabs on people in 2016. The information commissioner wants to kickstart a debate on whether people are prepared to accept this level of surveillance. He will tell a conference in London: \"Two years ago I warned that we were in danger of sleepwalking into a surveillance society. Today I fear that we are in fact waking up to a surveillance society that is already all around us. \"Surveillance activities can be well-intentioned and bring benefits. They may be necessary or desirable - for example, to fight terrorism and serious crime, to improve entitlement and access to public and private services, and to improve healthcare. But unseen, uncontrolled or excessive surveillance can foster a climate of suspicion and undermine trust.\" The report by the Surveillance Studies Network group of academics spells out some \"fairly conservative\" scenarios which would become reality in 2016. They predict that employees will be subjected to a barrage of biometric and psychological tests to determine how fit they are. Those who refuse to undergo the tests or are seen as being unhealthy will not be given the job. The experts believe that schools will also install a cashless card system to allow parents to pay for dinners. Initially, local councils will use this information to check that children are eating healthy food. But over time, the card will be used for other purposes, such as holding data on each child's exam results, after-school achievements, drug tests and internet use. They also predict that older people will feel increasingly isolated as relatives use cameras and sensors to check up on them without paying them a visit. Electronic chips will be implanted in some of the elderly, letting carers and family members locate them more easily. Dr David Murakami Wood, who headed the study, said: \"Surveillance is not a malign plot hatched by evil powers to control the population. But the surveillance society has come about almost without us realising.\" Although he emphasised its benefits, Dr Wood warned: \"It can create real problems for individuals - social exclusion, discrimination and a negative impact on their life chances. Unfortunately the dominant modes of surveillance expansion in the 21st century are producing situations where distinctions of class, race, gender, geography and citizenship are currently being exacerbated and institutionalised.\"",
  "title": "UK set for explosion in surveillance",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/e-government",
    "politics/politics",
    "law/human-rights",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/surveillance",
    "uk/immigration",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": " Privacy watchdog foresees climate of suspicion<br /> \n Move to kickstart debate over level of monitoring",
  "id": "technology/2006/nov/02/news.egovernment",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}