{
  "content": "The Mail on Sunday is still talking to its lawyers about whether it can publish this weekend its story containing allegations about Prince Charles. The paper was due to return to court this morning in a bid to have the injunction against it overturned but last night's dramatic intervention of the prince's most senior aide, Sir Michael Peat, who denounced the unpublished rumours as \"totally untrue and without a shred of truth\", forced a change of plan. The terms of the injunction were varied yesterday afternoon following the Guardian's successful bid to name the former royal servant who had got the injunction against the Mail on Sunday last week. However, it is believed the variation in the injunction was extremely limited. Following the Guardian's hearing yesterday the Sunday paper claimed it had been successful in \"relaxing the constraints\" of the gagging order. A Mail on Sunday spokesman said: \"Although parts of the order remain confidential, our application today to vary the terms of the injunction was successful. \"We are now satisfied the constraints under which we were working have been relaxed in our favour.\" Executives at the paper today said they were still talking to their lawyers and had nothing further to add at present. According to its front-page story last Sunday, the paper planned to publish a 3,000-word interview based on lengthy interviews with a former royal servant and backed up by a sworn affadavit. However, on Saturday morning lawyers representing a former royal aide - who can now be named as Mr Fawcett - informed the paper of their intention to seek an injunction. Following a three-hour high court hearing, Mr Justice Mackinnon made an order preventing publication of any details of the story. The terms of the injunction have not been made public but it is believed it was granted on grounds the material was libellous. It is unusual for the courts to exercise prior restraint over newspapers in cases of alleged libel. Such injunctions are only granted when the court is satisfied the allegations are untrue and the newspaper does not seek to claim they are true. If the paper says it is going to justify the claims, the more usual course is to let it publish and be damned. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857",
  "title": "Paper continues legal talks over royal story",
  "lead": " The Mail on Sunday is still talking to its lawyers about whether it can publish this weekend its story containing allegations about Prince Charles. Ciar Byrne reports.",
  "tags": [
    "media/mailonsunday",
    "media/privacy",
    "politics/freedomofinformation",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/nov/07/mailonsunday.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}