{
  "content": "I know it's wrong. But to me, the most sobering aspect of the recent spate of hacker attacks on major American corporate websites is that the offenders and their indirect accomplices appear close to being punished. Amazingly, at least among my friends and students, our initial reaction to news of the sabotage was one of perverse glee. We just couldn't repress our feelings, however illogical we knew them to be. Admit it: for one brief moment, the campaign of denial-of-service attacks brought a smile to your face. What could account for such widespread ambivalence about a clearly illegal and destructive campaign? Because it's refreshing, that's why. Over a few days last week, a rather simple programme temporarily paralysed the most established and profitable websites in the world. The attack programme worked by asking the target website for more information than it is capable of dispensing. With all its resources tied up, the website is forced to deny service to the millions of users who want access. The site goes down. This digital Molotov cocktail was distributed widely on hacker bulletin boards, so the perpetrator could be anyone, or even different hackers working independently. First, they incapacitated the most popular website in the world, the Yahoo search engine, which went down for hours as engineers struggled to restore order. Then they hit Amazon, CNN, eBay and buy.com. These are not randomly chosen websites. The hackers didn't attack schools, charities or communities. They attacked commerce. Why? Those of us who were enjoying the internet back in the 80s and early 90s remember a time when this technology was about communication. Businesses weren't even allowed on the net. In those days, the interactive media space felt like a cross between a college campus and the Wild West. It was a level playing field, where the size of your computer and the contents of your wallet meant nothing. The internet changed the way people thought about media and power. The net didn't seem like a particularly safe place - but since when are revolutions safe? The introduction of business to the internet changed all that. Corporate behemoths ignored the indigenous net population as they colonised our space. Companies conducting e-commerce needed to make the online environment more secure - in reality and in appearance. They're asking for our credit card information, after all. The look and feel of the internet changed as users were converted into consumers. Buy more, talk less. This is not a playground, they meant to say; this is business. \"Technology has changed not only the way people do business; it has changed the way criminals do business too,\" US Attorney General Janet Reno explained in a press conference last week, contextualising the attacks in the prevailing American parlance of commerce. Her cause-and-effect analysis is backwards. Business has changed the way people do technology, and now the people are fighting back. Double-click and other advertisers have no qualms about planting cookies on our hard drives and hacking or tracking us; maybe it's time they learnt what it feels like. Most well-known hackers have publicly distanced themselves from such denial of service attacks, calling them crude. Time magazine and other conglomerate-related outlets are only too willing to publicise these sentiments. But the fact is, this set of crude electronic pipe-bombs worked. They may be unsophisticated by hackers' standards, un-American by the FBI's standards, and unsportsmanlike by free-market capitalist standards, but as far as changing public perception about the internet goes they were, at the very least, effective. Don't tell me that these attacks didn't make you give a second thought about the valuation of your Nasdaq portfolio. This month's attacks prove that the internet is not as impenetrable as the opaque interface of the world wide web might suggest. It reminds us that the online universe was developed with public funds, and that corporate America has been getting a free ride on a civic highway. They are guests, not landlords. It's also fascinating to watch how rapidly these Silicon Valley CEOs - outspoken advocates of smaller government and deregulation - run for protection under Janet Reno's skirt now they are under attack. It will be public funds and resources that keep cyberspace safe for the techno-libertarians. Don't get me wrong: however much I'd like to, I can't condone cyber-terrorism. In the long run, we all pay for it. But the mere fact that our initial response is not one of fear, but rather of perverse joy, means that on some level we resent the companies that now dominate our information space. Rather than just looking for ways to shore up their defences, perhaps these companies should consider why they are under attack. \u0095 Douglas Rushkoff is a professor of media theory at New York University. His book, Coercion: Why We Listen to What 'They' Say, will be published by Little Brown in April",
  "title": "The net strikes back",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/cybercrime",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "world/freedom-of-speech",
    "world/censorship"
  ],
  "lead": "We responded with a perverse sense of joy to the havoc wrought by hackers on the big web corporations.",
  "id": "technology/2000/feb/14/hacking.security",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}