{
  "content": "Scrolling through Instagram, Facebook or Twitter, you'd be forgiven for thinking that everyone else was having a better time than you. But people are much more complex \u2013 and boring \u2013 than the versions we see on social media. And this addictive stream of positivity has the potential to make us miserable. A study of millennials found that those who were more involved with Facebook \u2013 such as posting photographs, changing profile photos and interacting with wall posts \u2013 were more likely to think other people's lives were happier and better than their own. According to a study (pdf) by the Happiness Research Institute (HPI) in Copenhagen, quitting Facebook for a week improves happiness levels and reduces stress by 55%. Ursula Goff, a stylist from Kansas, posted a selfie to social media last year showing how she looks in real life compared with the images she posts on social media. \"Social media can make it easy to feel like everyone else is awesome and perfect all the time, but that's really never true,\" she wrote. \"We should keep in mind that behind every pretty face or perfect lifestyle is a regular person \u2026 In reality, nothing is perfect, life is messy, and people are flawed.\" We asked social media users to share the reality behind their posts. This is what they said. I was feeling insecure about my body image at the time The photo shows me at work for a big online brand as their size 10 tall fit model \u2013 they fit their garments on my body until they are absolutely perfect to go out into mass production. To be a fit model you have to maintain a steady healthy weight and are measured weekly. I posted it because I was feeling insecure about my body image at the time, even though I was a slim 10 and I am 5' 11\" tall. I had recently come up plus on my measurements and I just couldn't lose weight. I was feeling quite a lot of pressure as I risked losing my job. There's lots of pressure to look a certain way and in my industry, at times, this is magnified. I suppose when you get the odd like or nice comment from social media it can make you feel a bit better, momentarily at least. I added a few filters to make myself look a bit more arty, and probably wasted about five minutes selecting which one struck the right balance. Although clients were really nice about it, I wasn't feeling very supported by my agency and what's nice about this moment, which is now captured on Instagram, is that it encouraged me to set up my own fittings agency that's more supportive to its models. If I don't receive any likes, it feels like there's something wrong with me I posted this photograph on Instagram when I was in hospital on an IV drip after staying there overnight. I use Twitter mostly for fandom so it's not really personal. But my Instagram account, which is supposedly more personal, is just a construct of a perfect, cultured, happy life. I've even had people tell me that they love my account and my life looks perfect. When someone likes or interacts with your post, it feels like someone is listening to you and like what you have to say matters. If I don't receive any likes, it feels like there's something wrong with me, or I'm boring, or everyone wants me to just shut up. When I come across people whose lives look better then mine it can make me feel worse about myself, even though I know really that it's just as constructed as mine. I actually felt a bit lonely This was my first holiday alone. And I was actually feeling a little nervous about being away without a partner, family or friends. Although I really needed the break from a pretty bad time and it was restorative, there were moments like when I took this photo that I actually felt a bit lonely. I posted it to connect with friends. But I also posted it for myself as a marker of what I was doing with my life, for strength. I guess some of my close friends would know this and everything else that was going on in my life. I suppose the people who don't would think I was having a great time! My real life is a lot flatter What I was really thinking in the photo: look at the awesome thing I'm doing, be jealous! My social media profile reflects a very polarised reflection of my life, generally highlighting only the very good or very bad. My real life is a lot flatter. I have normal ups and downs and little good things and worries, but also a lot of nothing. I go to work, get the train, have dinner and sleep. I post to tell people what I'm doing, to share my opinions, to attract attention in the form of jealousy or sympathy, to share things I found interesting and I think my friends will as well. When someone interacts with my post I feel good. It makes me feel like someone has taken time, however brief, to think about me and my life. I don't tend to be upset if I don't get any interaction as a lot of what I post is more about me saying it than others commenting. But the opposite to this is that I do feel very good when people do interact. I need to feel like all the pressure and personal sacrifices I make for my dream job is worth it This was one of the hardest years of my life. I had a fantastic job doing hair and make-up on a top west end show in London. But the hours required led to the breakdown of my relationship. I lost the flat I was renting with my ex-boyfriend which resulted in a year of couch-surfing as I had no time to find a replacement home. Living in London is so expensive that if I want to do anything extra in life, like have a holiday, you need more money than a full time job provides. So I did a stint of freelancing around the six days a week of full time work. This caused countless problems with friends as I missed weddings, birthdays and big life events because I was too busy. I eventually became really sick because I wasn't taking care of my body. I just didn't have time and I'm suffering from the consequences even now. Any illness in the job I work in is seen as weakness so it's all about keeping up so you can show you are hard enough to hack the pace. There's a pressure to do it all, be at the top of your game and prove you are succeeding. Theatres are now introducing nine shows a week. This combined with dress rehearsals, maintenance and no Christmas break means you can kiss goodbye to any free time. I posted these photos to social media to make myself feel better about my life choices. When people like what I'm doing it makes me feel I'm doing okay and it's all been worth it. Read on: The trials of Generation Y - the full series",
  "title": "Beyond the selfie: the true stories behind our most-liked posts",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/instagram",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "We asked (real) people to share the reality behind their social media posts. The responses were revealing",
  "id": "world/2016/mar/17/beyond-the-selfie-the-true-stories-behind-our-most-liked-posts",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}