{
  "content": "Was there a woman who saw those awful pictures of Nigella Lawson who didn't think \"If he does this in public what does he do behind closed doors?\" Not one that I have spoken to since they appeared. Some have said there is an issue about whether they should have appeared at all as they were in a private place. Actually Lawson and her husband, Charles Saatchi, were sitting in a courtyard outside an expensive restaurant in Mayfair where paparazzi always lurk. The pictures could have been taken by anyone with a mobile phone. No one appears to have intervened despite fellow diners eager to report Lawson's obvious distress. If a man had his hands round the throat of another man during a meal would the waiters have carried on as normal? What is going on here? The police are now looking into the incident though Lawson has not reported it to them. The Community Safety Unit is making inquiries: it deals with hate crime and domestic violence. And we mustn't fall into the trap of using \"domestic violence\" to imply a kind of cosier or lesser violence. Of course there are cases of women abusing men but this looks like common or garden violence against women. It is indeed frighteningly common. A few months ago we saw pictures of Saatchi clamping his hand over her mouth apparently to shut her up. He gives the impression of being a control freak. He is \"a character\" so doesn't bother with the niceties. He collects and discards art. He loves hip hop and hates Lawson's food. We know Lawson is loved by women as much as men because though neither skeletal or young she is smart, sexy and sends herself up. Nor has she had an easy life: her mother lashed out at her as a child and as an adult she has lost loved ones to cancer, including her first husband John Diamond. So her desire to live in a world of loveliness, of fairy lights and gorgeous food is understandable. And has made her a fortune. Saatchi of course was already massively rich, having successfully manoeuvred Margaret Thatcher into power. So the shock of these pictures is to do with a rich, famous woman apparently being abused \u2013 if that is what it is. Some say it's just a game. In his words \"a playful tiff\". One that leaves her tearful in the street? Please don't use the old excuse of \"passion\" or being, as she calls him, \"an exploder\". Apart from the fear in her eyes which genuinely upset me, the picture where he tweaks her nose is totally vile: it looks like absolute and humiliating bullying. My friend's 14-year-old daughter texted to ask me what was happening as she loves Lawson and thinks I know everything about the media. I certainly don't but I know this. Every relationship is different but domestic violence has the horrible effect of making the victim feel ashamed for \"provoking\" it. Whatever happens now, Lawson should know she is adored and that celebrity is no shield against abuse. Look at Rihanna. She may now feel \"shut up\", ashamed and embarrassed. She shouldn't. She has the money to find somewhere safe for her and her children. Many women don't. Lawson may still love Saatchi. Life is complicated. Meanwhile, there are many other women trapped in abusive relationships while refuges close down. None of them will be surprised no one \"intervened\". For all Lawson's success she looks just like any other vulnerable woman. She looks lost. I hope she feels the support from the many who understand the bravery it takes to walk away from a violent partner. It is all deeply sad and my heart goes out to her and her children. If this is what her husband calls a playful tiff one fears what a serious one might look like.",
  "title": "Nigella Lawson pictures: if it's a 'playful tiff', what does a serious one look like? | Suzanne Moore",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/nigellalawson",
    "world/privacy",
    "society/domestic-violence",
    "society/bullying",
    "lifeandstyle/celebrity",
    "society/society",
    "lifeandstyle/women",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "uk/uk",
    "artanddesign/charles-saatchi"
  ],
  "lead": "Suzanne Moore: Charles Saatchi putting his hands around Nigella Lawson's throat looks like humiliating bullying. I hope she is well supported",
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/jun/17/nigella-lawson-pictures",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}