{
  "content": "Age: 29. Appearance: Identical. Miffed. Miffed? Yes, probably. Why? Because Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss have lost their final appeal against Facebook, whose founder Mark Zuckerberg they claim stole their idea back in the dim and distant past . . . Or, 2004? Yes, thereabouts . . . and went on to make a fortune from it. But I thought they reached a settlement with Zuckerberg almost as handsome as themselves last year. Well, if you can call $65m in cash and stocks split two ways handsome. I can and I do. What were their grounds for appeal? That Facebook did not provide accurate information about the value of the company and the value of the shares they were getting. How much were they asking for? No figure has been published, but it is thought to be in the squillions. And even half a squillion is a super-handsome amount. But the judges rejected the notion? Yes. They pointed out that the twins had access to a vast battalion of blue-chip lawyers, including their father, who is an expert in valuation, and that this couldn't therefore be characterised as a David and Goliath case where the little guy got screwed. The boys are 6ft 5in, I believe. Your literalism is stunning but in this case essentially harmless. Yes, yes they are. So what happens now? Their attorney says he respectfully disagrees with the ninth circuit's findings and plans to file a petition for a rehearing with a larger panel of judges in the near future. Indefatigable, aren't they? What are their chances of success? Minimal. The courts are usually very unwilling to re-open cases where parties of equivalent bargaining strength agreed on a formal compensation package. Eric Goldman, professor of internet law, says the legal question doesn't warrant review and adds: \"I think they would be a lot happier and wealthier if they took that money and invested it in their therapist.\" At last, some sound legal advice. LOL! Do say: \"OMG! I canot believe wat those judjes have said to u, man! Good luck wid da nxt round!\" Don't say: \"Actually, I prefer Friends Reunited.\"",
  "title": "Pass notes, No 2,958: The Winklevoss twins",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "The 6ft 5in boys have lost their final appeal against Facebook. But wasn't the first settlement of $65m enough for them?",
  "id": "technology/2011/apr/12/pass-notes-winklevoss-twins-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}