{
  "content": "28 January 2011, in response to growing public protests \u2013 and fearing mass uprising as had just happened in Tunisia \u2013 the government of then president, Hosni Mubarak, followed the example of Burma, and a few others before it, and disabled internet and mobile phone networks. Why? To prevent people from accessing social media. Jillian York at Harvard University's Berkman Center for Internet and Society said in an interview at the time: \"Clearly, what's rattled the government is the major role that social media has played in the protests rocking the country's cities, including Cairo. Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and even Google Docs have been used in unprecedented ways this time around \u2013 both for coordination, and for disseminating news\". By 11 February 2011, Hosni Mubarak had resigned and observers began to speak of a \"Twitter revolution.\" While many disagree about the exact role social media played in what has become known as 'the Arab Spring', there is no denying that the internet has changed the way networks form and how those networks then challenge established structures. In a Ted talk on 'How social media can make history', New York University academic, Clay Shirky argues that \"the history of the modern world could be rendered as the history of ways of arguing, where changes in media change what sort of arguments are possible \u2013 with deep social and political implications\". His biography on the site describes his work as follows: \"Clay Shirky's work focuses on the rising usefulness of networks ... New technologies are enabling new kinds of cooperative structures to flourish as a way of getting things done in business, science, the arts and elsewhere as an alternative to centralised and institutional structures\". So how does that play out in development? How can social media change how development research is shared and used? How too can social media change the way activists and NGOs campaign? And if NGOs are themselves \"institutional structures\", how do they stand to be changed by social media and online networks? On Thursday 16 May, we will bring together a panel to discuss these and other questions. Join us in the comment threads below from 1pm to 3pm BST. The live chat is not video or audio-enabled but will take place in the comments section (below). To join the panel or simply give your views ahead of the chat, email globaldevpros@theguardian.com. Follow our tweets using the hashtag #globaldevlive Panel Silke von Brockhausen, social media specialist, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), New York, USA. @svbroc Silke coordinates UNDP's global social networking community and trains senior managers and staff in the use of social media. She's interested in effective ways to use social media for development advocacy as well as making the international development community more transparent and accessible through social media. Philip Ogola, social media head, Kenya Red Cross, Nairobi, Kenya. @PhilipOgola Philip developed the #iVolunteer campaign. Through the campaign, the Red Cross can now respond to and prevent disasters thanks to social media. He is also a digital communications consultant and an HIV, road safety and cancer activist. David Girling, lecturer, School of international development, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK. @socialmedia4D David is a communications specialist and a lecturer on the MA Media and International Development. He is interested in social media's relationship with international development and regularly blogs about the subject. Dustin Andres, social communications specialist, TechLab at the NGO, FHI 360 in Washington, DC. @ICTforAg Dustin is a social communications specialist for the TechLab at FHI 360 and a trainer in eight countries in sub-Saharan Africa on low-cost video for development. He is currently working on a social media handbook for agricultural development practitioners. Ruth Aine Tindyebwa, freelance journalist and blogger, Kampala Uganda. @ruthaine Ruth is a journalist with a background in broadcast media. She runs a personal blog but also blogs for Bertelsmann Stiftung Future Challenges and is a Ugandan correspondent for Youth Hub Africa. Ruth won the Heinz Kuhn Stiftung Journalism Award in 2011. Rebecca Shore, communications specialist, Johns Hopkins Center for Communication Programs, Baltimore, USA. @Rebecca_Shore Rebecca has over ten years of experience working with public health programs and is the co-chair and founder of a social media working group for people working in global health and development mostly based in the US. She blogs regularly for Knowledge for Health. Mike Lee, Mike Lee Storytelling, London, UK. @mikeleenews Mike is a former ABC news correspondent, now focused on serial storytelling for non-profits, development organisations and commercial enterprises. The concept uses the hugely effective method of episodic storytelling that tempts audiences to return to your web site over and over again. Rachel Collinson, director of knowledge sharing and innovation, Engaging Networks, London, UK. @rachel_shares Rachel has worked with international non-profits on their digital strategy since 1999. She is currently helping clients of Engaging Networks to get the best from their online advocacy and donation web tools. Anne Jellema, chief executive officer, World Wide Web Foundation, Cape Town, SA. @afjellema Anne leads a global team which works for web rights and freedoms, open data and affordable internet access.",
  "title": "How can social media change how development is done?",
  "lead": "From journalism to business, social media are changing how institutions engage citizens. But what effect will this have on development? Join the debate Thursday, 16 May",
  "tags": [
    "global-development-professionals-network/communications",
    "global-development-professionals-network/global-development-professionals-network",
    "global-development-professionals-network/live-chats",
    "global-development-professionals-network/technology",
    "global-development/global-development",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "global-development-professionals-network/2013/may/13/social-media-global-development-debate",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}