{
  "content": "The new press watchdog proposed by the country's largest newspaper and magazine publishers has \"a profound lack of any functional or meaningful independence from the industry\", a trust associated with Hacked Off claims. Martin Moore, director of the Media Standards Trust which spawned the Hacked Off campaign, claims the new watchdog - the Independent Press Standards Organisation (Ipso) \u2013 \"institutionalises\" the influence of Associated Newspapers, Trinity Mirror, News UK and the Telegraph Media Group, among others. He says the powers given to newspapers to challenge rulings by the new regulator mean it would be highly unlikely to ever impose fines of \u00a31m. The \u00a31m fine, proposed during the Leveson inquiry into press standards, was designed to demonstrate how seriously the industry was taking lessons learned after the failure of the Press Complains Commission tto investigate phone hacking at the News of the World. Moore, who has analysed the detail of the proposals for Ipso, found that there are seven opportunities for challenges to be made by a publisher. \"The investigations process proposed in the Ipso plans is so lengthy, and provides so many opportunities for the publisher to object, that there is very little chance a fine will ever be imposed,\" he said. \"It is a long way away from the system Leveson recommended. The industry's plans were unveiled a fortnight ago in an attempt to shift the impasse over the creation of a new press regulator following the industry's objections to a royal charter system proposed by the government. The new system could be established within months,but Moore says that on a number of counts, the body is far from Leveson compliant. \"This institionalises the power that Pressbof (the existing funding body) \u2026 they have an awful lot of power over the system. There is a complete lack of independence here,\" he said. \"It's not just about the practicalities and the independence. It's also about the perception of the public,\" Moore added. He says that under the proposals, the funding body for the regulator will need to agree the five industry members of the regulatory board. However sources in the industry say this is not the case \u2013 the body will only not have a veto but an \"advisory role\" in relation to industry members of the regulatory board which the independent appointments panel can ignore. They also say say that the new funding body, known as the Regulatory Funding Committee, only has the advisory role in relation to appointments as a matter of practicality, not out of a desire to maintain the status quo. They say there is the only body in the country that all newspaper and magazine publishers have signed up to and therefore the only one that can act as \"an intermediary\" for the entire industry. One source said, for example, that Express Newspapers owner Richard Desmond is not a member of any of the main four trade bodies, but would be represented by the RFC. The insider said that the industry implementation committee did consider setting up an entirely body membership exactly mirroring the funding body but it would add to costs. \"There are already eight bodies that make up the regulator and two more to be added in the future in relation to the royal charter. So we will have 10 bodies that needed to be staffed and funded. If we have another that will make 11,\" said the industry executive. However insiders admit that if it remains an obstacle a new body could be set up. \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@theguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Press regulation: Ipso would have 'no independence from industry'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/press-regulation",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/newspapers",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "media/ipso"
  ],
  "lead": "Media Standards Trust director Martin Moore says proposed new body institutionalises the influence of big newspaper groups. By Lisa O'Carroll",
  "id": "media/2013/jul/18/press-regulation-ipso-independence",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}