{
  "content": "BBC guidelines on staff tweeting about sensitive news stories are being tightened up following the rogue tweet about an obituary rehearsal that led several major international news organisations to report wrongly that Queen Elizabeth had been admitted to hospital. Questions are being asked internally about why some of the usual procedures were not followed for a rehearsal for a category one royal death, leading to what is believed to be the first leak for years about the BBC's annual run-through of how it would deal with such a sensitive event. Usually the rehearsal is held at the weekend, when fewer staff are at BBC news headquarters in New Broadcasting House in central London. However it is understood that the last one, held earlier this year, ran into technical difficulties, including a mix-up over graphics, leading the BBC's head of news gathering, Jonathan Munro, to order a rerun. Staff are not usually emailed about the rehearsal to avoid leaks. However, on this occasion, Munro warned some staff via email, telling them: \"It's essential that we can rehearse these sensitive scenarios privately. BBC Tours have been suspended, and the blinds from public areas including reception and the media cafe will remain dropped. \"I'd also ask for your help in refraining from any external conversations and all social media activity about this exercise. Your continued discretion will be greatly appreciated.\" However, sources say that not all staff were on the mailing list used, which may explain why BBC Urdu reporter Ahmen Khawaja mistakenly sent a tweet saying that the Queen had died, when she discovered coverage of it internally during the rehearsal. She then retracted the message, saying the Queen was being treated in hospital. According to BBC obituary procedure radio news guidelines, seen by The Guardian, \"World Service runs its own coverage of a royal death\", which may explain why Khawaja did not receive the email as BBC Urdu is part of the World Service Group. An internal investigation under the BBC's disciplinary guidelines and potential disciplinary action has now been launched about the episode, which could be an embarrassment to the BBC in the runup to the negotiations for its royal charter. It is understood that BBC news journalists are told in internal guidelines not to tweet about a story referring to the BBC's \"category one\" of public figures \u2013 the Queen, the Duke of Edinburgh, Prince Charles and the Duke of Cambridge \u2013until the BBC Breaking Twitter feed has reported it. The obituary procedure radio guidelines also state: \"It is essential that those responsible for the coverage in the hour or so immediately after the announcement of death, especially of the Monarch and, assuming the death is a natural one, understand that this is NOT a \"breaking story\" in the normally accepted sense. \"If the death was sudden and/or unexpected, the circumstances of the death, as a news story, might well take precedence, at least in the initial coverage. However, it would be expected that the tone would become more reflective as the coverage unfolds. Take a deep breath and do not rush.\" According to sources, staff are now being reminded about social media guidelines and procedures are being tightened up. Buckingham Palace denied any suggestion on Wednesday that the monarch is unwell. In an unfortunate coincidence for the BBC that may have compounded the confusion, the Queen was attending King Edward VII's hospital, a private facility in Marylebone, London, for her annual medical checkup that day. A BBC spokesman said: \"During a technical rehearsal for an obituary, tweets were mistakenly sent from the account of a BBC journalist saying that a member of the royal family had been taken ill. The tweets were swiftly deleted and we apologise for any offence.\"",
  "title": "BBC tightens guidelines on sensitive stories after rogue Queen-related tweet",
  "lead": "BBC social media guidelines for news, seen by The Guardian, are being tightened after Twitter leak led to erroneous reports about the Queen's health",
  "tags": [
    "media/bbc",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/media",
    "uk/queen",
    "uk/monarchy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2015/jun/04/bbc-reviews-guidelines-sensitive-stories-rogue-queen-related-tweet",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}