{
  "content": "Catherine Zeta Jones and Michael Douglas could not have imagined that their New York nuptials in November 2000 would still be so talked about more than two years after the event. But Mr Justice Lindsay's judgment in the couple's legal battle with Hello! was eagerly awaited by more than just the stars' fans and celebrity watchers. Many regarded the case as the key by which a free-standing right of privacy would finally be recognised. The irony, of course, is the couple had gone to enormous lengths to prevent their wedding turning into a media frenzy. Legal proceedings are, perhaps, harder to control. For those calling for the law to recognise a wide right of privacy, the early signs were good. In November 2000 Zeta Jones and Douglas first battled against Hello! to prevent it publishing unauthorised photographs of the wedding. The court of appeal overturned an injunction that had initially been granted. However, in giving his judgment, Lord Justice Sedley suggested that, in light of the coming into force of the Human Rights Act, English law should now recognise a general law of privacy. Events have moved on since Lord Justice Sedley gave his judgment and the judiciary started expressing caution. For example, in Wainwright v Home Office, the court foresaw difficulties in it developing a comprehensive or \"blockbuster\" right of privacy. In his judgment in Douglas v Hello!, Mr Justice Lindsay declined to pick up the baton held out by Mr Justice Sedley. He was helped in this because the peculiarities of the case meant that it could be decided in the Douglases' favour by relying on long established principles of the law of confidence. In being able to grant rights to publish pictures, the Douglases had a valuable trade asset - a commodity, the value of which depended upon it being kept secret and then made public in a controlled way. Put simply, photographic representations of the wedding was confidential information. Having established this, the arguments Hello! had set up in defence were knocked down one by one. The wedding was a private event, attended by family and friends. Its size and grandeur did not undermine this. Nor did the fact the couple had chosen to sell photographs of their wedding. To make the point, the couple's barrister gave a highbrow analogy which struck a chord with the judge. An 1841 Landseer oil painting shows members of the royal family in the green drawing room at Windsor Castle. They had clearly allowed themselves to be portrayed in this way but this did not mean that other representations of their private or family life did not benefit form a right of confidence. The evidence on how Hello! came to acquire the photographs was complex and not always clear. What was apparent to Mr Justice Lindsay was that Hello! had not acted in good faith or fairly. Its conscience was tainted. A paparazzo had, uninvited, infiltrated the wedding and, in spite of a clear prohibition, used a camera to take photographs. This breached the press complaints commission's code, a factor the court had to take into account under the Human Rights Act. The publication of poor quality and arguably unflattering photographs of the couple in Hello! had caused them distress, inconvenience and expense. It had also interfered with the commercial transaction they had entered into with OK!, as they were entitled to do. So the couple will recover damages and, technically, have won their battle. But of at least equal interest is the judge's reasoning for declining to rely on the law of privacy. The case for the existence of a free-standing right of privacy had not been made out, according to Mr Justice Lindsay. The justification for such a right depended, arguably, on English law being so inadequate that individual rights to private and family life are not properly protected. This was not demonstrably the case. The ramifications of recognising a wide right of privacy are such that it should be left to parliament, he concluded. Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta Jones have won the day on points. Many in the media will be relieved that Mr Justice Lindsay did not take the opportunity of finding in their favour based on the existence of a law privacy. However, the die is not yet cast. Other cases, taking place out of the spotlight, have worrying implications for the media, particularly where circumstances are such that the law of confidence cannot be said to apply. Mr Justice Lindsay declined to break the mould but he did not rule out the possibility that, if parliament doesn't plug the gaps left by the law of confidence, the courts ultimately will. \u00b7 David Attfield is the senior associate and media specialist at law firm Lovells",
  "title": "Crisis of confidence",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": " Many in the media will be glad Mr Justice Lindsay did not find in OK!s favour on the grounds of privacy but other cases taking place outside the spotlight have worrying implications for the press, writes David Attfield",
  "id": "media/2003/apr/11/privacy.pressandpublishing2",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}