{
  "content": "Perhaps it was the spurious precision of the headline that caught my eye. \"Web 2.0 will end on October 1 2012\", it said. The idea of a meme \u2013 an infectious idea \u2013 having a definite termination point was peculiar enough; but a meme as nebulous as Web 2.0? Of course the phrase had become ubiquitous in PR-speak over the past few years. It seemed that the press release for every self-respecting online product or service had to have it somewhere in the text. But to ask the authors of these documents to explain what they meant by Web 2.0 was to risk accusations of mental cruelty, for they generally knew not whereof they spoke. (In that respect, it was like asking News International executives about \"ethics\".) Many seemed to regard it simply as a synonym for \"cool\" or \"the latest thing\". In that respect, Web 2.0 resembles many other technical terms \u2013 think \"laser\", \"turbo\" and the prefix \"i\" \u2013 which have been co-opted by the hucksters of their days. The prediction of Web 2.0's demise was made by Christopher Mims, a technology commentator who writes for the MIT journal Technology Review. He started by typing Web 2.0 into Google Trends search engine. This shows that usage of (or at any rate searches for) the term peaked in 2007 and that it's been going downhill ever since. Mims then extrapolated the downward trend until it hit the X-axis on the chart. QED. As it happens, Web 2.0 does mean something, even though the definition gets a bit fuzzy round the edges. It first appeared in 1999 but didn't really gain any traction until the publisher Tim O'Reilly and his colleagues were brainstorming a title for a conference they were organising in 2003. The basic idea behind the event was to challenge public perceptions that the collapse of the 1995-2001 internet boom implied that the web was a busted flush. So they decided to call the conference Web 2.0 and launched the meme upon an unsuspecting world. Having done so, they then had to come up with a definition for it. The nearest they could get to one was the notion of the web as a \"platform\" \u2013 ie a basis on which software and applications could be built. So if the internet itself was the platform on which Web 1.0 \u2013 the first version of the Web as a simple publication system \u2013 was built, then Web 2.0 was the platform on which new, innovative  applications could be built. What kinds of innovations? Well, social networking services such as MySpace, Orkut, LinkedIn, Facebook and Twitter. Image-hosting services like Flickr. Online mapping systems such as Google Maps and OpenCycleMap. Cloud computing services like Google Docs, Zoho, Instapaper, Dropbox (and now Apple's forthcoming iCloud). Wikipedia. And so on, ad infinitum. Web 2.0, in other words, became the underpinning for much of our online environment. Even as it did so, however, we lacked a succinct description of it that would make sense to lay people. The nearest we got was David Weinberger's description of the new web as \"small pieces, loosely joined\". In a memorable 2005 essay, the programmer and entrepreneur Paul Graham decided that three things distinguished Web 2.0 from its read-only predecessor: a programming technology called Ajax, which could turn any web page into a small virtual computer; a democratic attitude which persuaded many web developers to make their services interoperable with those of others; and the realisation that  the only way to be successful was to take seriously the needs of users. The implication, of course, is that Web 1.0 was as much of a perversion of the original concept of the web as the horseless carriage was of the potential of the automobile. Industrial corporations saw the web simply as a new kind of push medium \u2013 billion-channel television, if you like. They were wrong, of course, but it took the bursting of the dotcom bubble to expose the extent of their misconceptions. So one way of looking at Web 2.0 is simply to say that it's \"the web done properly\". Which may explain why Christopher Mims's chart peaked in 2007. It could be that as the world settled down to having the web as it should be, people (apart from PR folk) stopped fretting about this Web 2.0 thingy and started taking it for granted. After all, as some Chinese philosopher has doubtless observed, fish are probably not very curious about water. The big question, of course, is what will Web 3.0 be like? And the answer, I suppose, is that if we knew that then we wouldn't be here.",
  "title": "The death of Web 2.0 is nigh | Technology",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/web20",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/myspace",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Our lives were changed by Web 2.0, but according to an industry watcher its days are numbered, writes John Naughton",
  "id": "technology/2011/aug/07/web-2-platform-end-naughton",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}