{
  "content": "Campkins Cameras (est. 1800) on Rose Crescent in Cambridge is not the type of establishment where you would expect to find equipment which may be useful for criminal gangs intent on stealing lucrative information. But a second-hand flashgun bought there for \u00a320 is causing concern after researchers demonstrated how it could be used to extract crucial details from smart cards, which are increasingly being used to store the most sensitive personal information. Scientists from the University of Cambridge's computer laboratory claimed that by firing light from the flash at parts of a smart card chip they could get to information stored on the card. It is not the first time attacks have been made on smart cards but many previous ones have been crude, unreliable and in some cases required expensive equipment. The flashgun experiment may be more worrying because cheap and easily available technology has produced such results. Smart cards are becoming increasingly prevalent around the world. Much more information can be stored on them than on magnetic strips and they can be programmed to perform multiple functions. Usually the size of a library card with a computer chip embedded in them, they can be utilised as credit or debit cards or to access satellite television or pay for telephone calls. They can also store very personal information such as medical details - from this month, for example, 22 million Taiwanese residents will begin to carry cards which will store their health records. They can be used as security passes or, like an old-fashioned wax seal, as an electronic signature to authenticate documents. Previous attacks on chips involved unsatisfactory techniques such as aiming heat or electricity at the targeted area. The Cambridge team wondered if blasting chips with light would work. Because the computer laboratory at Cambridge has a limited budget for equipment and the laser it had was unsuitable, they took a trip to Campkins. They believed that by directing the flash from the American-made Vivitar flashgun through one of their microscopes they might be able to tamper with individual cells in a chip and thus gain access to information which should be secret. The flashgun was fixed to the microscope with duct tape and the light was concentrated by using an aperture fashioned out of aluminium foil. Sergei Skorobogatov, the PhD student who designed the attack, and Ross Anderson, leader of the laboratory's security group, were delighted with the results. They found that by targeting cells individually they could accurately map the memory areas of the chips and extract information. Skrobogatov, a graduate of the Moscow State Engineering Physics Institute, and Anderson claim the new attack works with such precision that existing countermeasures against attacks will have to be upgraded. They claimed the technique would work on at least one smartcard - which they did not name - currently on the market. Skorobogatov described the attack as a \"new and devastating technique for attacking smartcards\". He said: \"We anticipate it could have a significant commercial impact on the industry.\" Anderson said the work would \"trigger a generation change in smart card technology.\" The team believes that many attacks which were previously thought to be possible only in theory could now actually be carried out using the new expertise. Since its unveiling at a symposium in California, the method has caused a stir among those who manufacture and use smart cards. Perhaps unsurprisingly, some in the industry have tried to play it down. A leading British expert, David Everett, technical director of the magazine Smart Cards Now, said he did not believe the attack would particularly worry many manufacturers. But he added: \"It's a constant battle for the companies who produce smart cards to stay ahead of the hackers.\" Chip with everything The gold blob may measure little more than 1cm square, but in that tiny space lies computing power which 20 years ago would have taken an entire room to accommodate. The chips can currently store up to 32,000 bytes of data, much more than the magnetic strips they are replacing. \"Data residing in the chip can be protected against external inspection or alteration, so effectively that the vital secret keys of the cryptographic systems used to protect the integrity and privacy of card-related communications can be held safely against all but the most sophisticated forms of attack,\" boasts one UK smart card website. The Cambridge experiment outlined above suggests otherwise. \u00b7 Steven Morris is a Guardian reporter.",
  "title": "Theft at the speed of light",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "They use a security chip to store sensitive information and they were reckoned to be invincible, until now. Steven Morris reports from an unlikely lab in Cambridge.",
  "id": "uk/2002/sep/07/privacy.stevenmorris1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}