{
  "content": "Lord Wakeham will continue to earn his \u00a3156,000 a year salary until September 1 when his resignation from the press complaints commission takes effect. His departure from the PCC comes amid mounting pressure for reform of the watchdog. The commission has been accused by several newspaper editors of giving undue sympathy to complaints from celebrities, Downing Street and the royal family. The press standards board of finance Ltd (Pressbof), which funds the PCC, said it would announce the new chairman the day Lord Wakeham leaves. Professor Robert Pinker took the reins after Lord Wakeham stepped aside \"as a matter of honour\" on January 31. The Tory peer was an \u00a380,000-a-year non-executive director of Enron, and was facing mounting pressure to answer questions about the energy firm's multibillion dollar bankruptcy. He has since resigned from Enron, which is still the subject of a series of investigations in the US. Lord Wakeham has come under twin pressures to quit the PCC. There have been vociferous calls for reform from the editor of the Daily Telgraph, Charles Moore, and the editor of the Independent, Simon Kelner, following decisions by the watchdog to uphold a complaint by Tony Blair about his son's university application. There was also a feeling that the power of the PCC would be seriously weakened if Lord Wakeham had remained as chairman. It could take years for Lord Wakeham to clear his name over any accusations of wrongdoing concerning the Enron collapse. In a statement, PressBof paid tribute to Lord Wakeham, 69, saying: \"The board wishes to record its appreciation of his outstanding contribution to self-regulation of the press over the past seven years.\" The selection process for the appointment of a new chairman of the PCC will be managed by a sub-committee of the PressBof board, consisting of chairman Sir Harry Roche; the Hon Jeremy Deedes, the managing director of the Daily Telegraph Group; David Newell, the director of the newspaper society; Robin Miller, the chief executive of Emap plc; and Grahame Thomson, the secretary of PressBof. \"It is envisaged that the final recommendation to the board will be made prior to September 1, when it is hoped that the appointment will be announced,\" said a statement from the board. \"PressBof is confident that in the period until the new chairman is in position, the PCC under the competent and skilful guidance of its acting chairman, professor Robert Pinker, and director Guy Black, will continue to provide a first-class service to the public and uphold the tough ethical code on which self-regulation of the press is based.\"",
  "title": "Wakeham quits, but keeps salary",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "6pm: Lord Wakeham will continue to earn his \u00a3156,000 a year salary until September 1, writes Owen Gibson",
  "id": "media/2002/mar/18/pressandpublishing.privacy1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}