{
  "content": "More and more travellers are abandoning hotels and hostels to stay with locals they have found through hospitality networks. Here is a round up of the best-known and most interesting organisations within this ever-growing field. 1. Couchsurfing.com With over 600,000 members and rising, this is hospitality tourism's biggest, liveliest and most user-friendly site. Established in 2004, it offers an online directory of members willing to offer a free place to stay, not necessarily a couch, to passing travellers. Some people also sign up just to meet other members or attend group events. It is free to join and every member has their own profile page, like MySpace, which other members can browse. Security measures include rating members on a zero (anyone) to three scale (name and address verified by a small credit card payment). You can also be \"vouched for\" by a more established member and leave references for others based on personal experiences. 2. HospitalityClub.org Founded in Germany in 2000, this is the second widest hospitality network, with nearly 400,000 members. It is aimed at those wanting to host or be hosted, or those looking simply to meet up with locals/travellers. The site looks much more dated than some of its rivals, with more basic profiles and search facilities; however, a plus point is the inspiring groups section (families, indigenous members, off-the-beaten-track hosts etc). For added safety, members are encouraged to check each other's passports when they meet, although this rarely happens in reality. 3. BeWelcome.org A newer addition to the hospitality movement, BeWelcome was established in 2006 by a troop of dissatisfied Hospitality Club volunteers. It shares some of the guiding principles of Servas (below) but has a more modern feel and, with an emphasis on sharing rather than freeloading, it has created a friendly community. The site is more multilingual than most and also aims to incorporate people from wider social economic groups. It currently has only 4,000 members, but they have set their sights on 10,000 by 2009. Security measures include members leaving comments for others and a system where an approved volunteer verifies the identities of members they meet by checking their passports. 4. Servas The oldest travel network on the block, Servas was established in 1949 to promote world peace and cross-cultural understanding. Unlike most of the newer alternatives, it is not web-based; instead, members find hosts either by using a printed directory or contacting their national secretary. Fees depend on the country branch policy, but range from $10 (\u00a35) to $85 (\u00a343) per year and the other interesting twist is members need to be interviewed before they can join. The organisation currently has approximately 20,000 members, who are asked to host others only for two nights, and, after that, are entitled to ask for payment. Alternatively, they can just offer to be a day host and show someone around town. 5. GlobalFreeloaders.com This site cuts to the chase: no forums, groups or guiding philosophy, it is focused purely on finding a free place to stay. The design is extremely basic, with profiles often consisting of just one paragraph of text and no pictures. It has 46,000 members and was founded in Australia, where it has the best coverage. An unusual feature is being able to send accommodation requests to multiple members in one shot \u2013 which saves time but makes the system seem far less personal. 6. LGHEI.org Dating back to 1991, LGHEI (pronounced Elle-Gay) stands for Lesbian and Gay Hospitality Exchange International. The free-accommodation network is aimed solely at gay travellers. Founded in Montreal, it has since moved its headquarters to Berlin and now has around 700 members, with its best coverage in western Europe and North America. The annual fee is \u20ac30 (\u00a324), which grants access to a members' directory. Guests are expected to limit requests for hospitality to two nights. Currently only 10% of the membership is women and approximately 65% are couples. 7. StayDontPay.net Based in the UK, Staydontpay.net is a network of members, mainly retirees, willing to offer B&amp;B accommodation in their own homes at no charge. They, in turn, get \"host stamps\", which can be redeemed against a free night in another member's home. Membership costs just under \u00a330 per year and entitles you to two nights' accommodation. The networking process is then co-ordinated by the founder, Fraser Spence. You register your availability with him and, when someone wants to stay in your area, he sends you their personal profile and leaves the decision to host up to you. 8. YowTrip.com This very new site (launched September 2007) combines tip sharing, blogging, hospitality exchanges and photo posting. Attractively designed and easy to use, it functions by allowing you to type in your destination, then displaying all the connected content. It also lists members living in your chosen place as well as members who have travelled there, who you can then contact for advice. Although it advertises itself as aiding members to host or be hosted, this side of the site is still fairly undeveloped. 9. Friendsonarrival.com This is less about accommodation and more about having a friendly contact who can help you settle in. It's well suited to people relocating or planning to spend a stint of time in a place. Founded in early 2006, it spans 57 countries but currently has too few members to make it a really valuable resource. 10. Stay4Free.com \"If you want to become a guest in someone else's home, you need to be able to be a host in your own,\" says the Stay4Free homepage. This site is still holding on to its status as one of the recognisable names in hospitality tourism but it remains undeveloped compared to many of the others sites and profiles often offer little more than a contact email address. The focus is more on the accommodation than the people.",
  "title": "Top 10 hospitality travel sites",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "travel/travelwebsites",
    "travel/top10",
    "travel/travellingsolo",
    "travel/adventure",
    "travel/southamerica",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "travel/travel"
  ],
  "lead": "Vicky Baker has put travel networking sites to the ultimate test travelling solo across Central and South America. Here she recommends the best of the bunch",
  "id": "travel/2008/jun/27/travelwebsites.top10",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}