{
  "content": "There are times, interesting times, when newspapermen (and politicians) may usefully ponder a life in which the Press Complaints Commission has ceased to exist. And this, in the immediate wake of yet another select committee report - chaired as ever by the eternal Gerald Kaufman - is one of those moments. What is the point of going on? And what would happen if we didn't? Long ago, after all, there was a Press Council, open for business in 1953, closed in 1990. Why did it bite the dust? Because, as Sir Harry Roche, chairman of Pressbof, the industry body which funds the PCC, explained to the Culture, Media and Sport brigade: 'In the end the council lost all credibility because it was spending lots of money on proactive activities, reports into football stadium disasters with nobody asking them to do it, of its own volition - and then people were saying: that is all very interesting but that is not what this is all about.' Too much cash going walkaround; too much proactivity; too many third party complaints from the usual third parties; too many lawyers; too much delay, as weeks of waiting to hear complaints turned into months. The old construct, no matter how gallantly defended, couldn't hold. Sir David Calcutt, keeper of the Last Chance Saloon, wanted a successor regulator with legal teeth, but also, impossibly, with a lightness of touch and thought - a new organisation which could resolve disputes fast, if possible by negotiation. The press, in rare unanimity, mostly obliged. Enter the PCC, the spender of nearly \u00a318 million of industry cash over the years. And now what does Kaufman want? A privacy law. A proactive commission. A welcome for many third-party complaints. Appeals procedures, belts and braces. The beginning of fines and sanctions against errant editors. And more, much more, money swilled through the system. Here we go round the mulberry bush. And here could be where the bough breaks. If it does, it will be because patience and resolve have run out - and because the press, as before, has grown tired of costly charades. Sir Christopher Meyer, the latest PCC chairman, had already (pre-Kaufman) announced an eight-point series of reforms, many with price tags attached. An extra lay commissioner will put up the bill; so will annual customer audits, users' handbooks and open meetings staged around the country. Watch a \u00a31.7m budget turn to \u00a32m. And once you incorporate big bites of the select committee banquet - say a prior warning team you can phone 24 hours a day to clobber an editor who may be planning to print an unwelcome tale - then that could easily double staff costs. MPs never have much difficulty spending somebody else's money. Would \u00a34m or so break the Pressbof bank? Clearly not. A registration fee spread across every newspaper and magazine published in Britain - tariff according to size of circulation - isn't going to spell nemesis. But it could and would fray tempers. For why (our more impecunious regional editors might demand) should we stump up to keep the News of the World safe for sleaze? Why should we ride shotgun for the Rupert stage? The Kaufman committee's cited list of principal offenders, with seven or more cases for adjudication since the PCC began 12 years ago, is wholly dominated by the national big boys: 47 adjudications (19 of them upheld) for the Sun, 39 and 17 for the News of the World, 39 and 16 for the Mail on Sunday. Only one broadsheet, the Sunday Times, makes a notable showing: 23 and six. The Guardian and the Independent barely trouble the scorers (one complaint upheld each in 12 years); The Observer doesn't even rate a mention. So why, pray, should the Huddersfield Examiner or the Blackpool Evening Gazette dig deeper into the petty cash tills because there's another Fleet Street 'crisis'? Why, for that matter, should The Observer throw your hard-earned fivers at the People and News of the Screws? Kaufman coughs and adds his own neat question. Shouldn't persistent offenders against the code pay more? It's a rancorous debate, and it is finally being waged because, among other things, the great deterrent called privacy law has changed itself over the decade. In 1990, the PCC was created to stave off such a law. Now - see Sara Cox in her honeymoon hot tub with a People snapper in long lens attendance - there's no realistic way of keeping it totally at bay. The Government can finesse Article 8 of the European Human Rights Convention as zealously as it likes, transform the PCC and the code committee into informal courts of first resort for privacy hearings; but it still can't stop judges getting in on the act, making law one case at a time. How much is it worth paying to prevent the promulgation of an ad hoc law which can't be stopped anyway? Regional papers may, on the figures, be the PCC's best customers. But that's because there are so many more of them. Privacy lawyers would only bang on their doors once in a blue moon anyway. The regionals and the national broadsheets don't do honeymoon hot tubs or fake villains pretending to kidnap Posh and Becks. They can - like this paper - appoint their own Readers' Editor to monitor accuracy. They can promulgate their own codes of conduct for readers. And what's so fearsome about a privacy law in any case? Italy and France and Spain have them one way or another. They don't stop paparazzi on the prowl, or the stocks of scabrous celebrity mags on every shelf. Any British law, moreover, would not be half as exciting as fee-crazed solicitors suppose. It would be penny plain crown court stuff (as the last Lord Chancellor but one proposed); it would have to follow the normal European human rights tariff for fines - \u00a315,000 or so, topweight. No Sara Cox \u00a350,000 settlements, no return to the glory days of libel millions. The Sun and the Screws could take their chances. The rest could do their own thing. Why lumber yourself with grief, cost and recurrent bouts of Kaufman? We - the innocent majority - can't stop Andy Coulson, the NoW editor, authorising illicit pictures of Ian Huntley in his cell, a direct breach of the code (clause 4, para 2). We don't feed packets of coke to dazed and confused pop stars. Let's pack our bags and depart. Let's not throw more good money after bad. Posit a row, a collapse, a walking away. And what would governments and select committees do then, poor things? Spend their own money on statutory press councils - and be sniggered at through Commonwealth conferences? Throw yet more bits of law into the breach, picking noxious international political quarrels before you could say Berlusconi? Trudge through the European human rights court balancing clause against clause, privacy against the public's right to know? It is much easier to cajole and threaten than to intervene. Defining an unfree press in the glare of the spotlights could be a democratic nightmare. Successive administrations from Thatcher to Blair have backed away from it for solid, infinitely pragmatic reasons. Strip out the rhetoric, then, and there are cogent arguments for a continuing Press Complaints Commission. It obliges a fissiparous industry to find common cause. It puts ethics on the agenda. It enforces a dialogue between editors and their readers. It makes complaining easy - 2,225 times in the last year. Of course the PCC, like every other self regulator, is also a bit of a self-protection racket. It was designed, without undue altruism, to keep Mr Kaufman's predecessors off press backs. It is run too inertly (or slyly) on the press membership side. Leaving Neil Wallis of Sara Cox fame - now of the News of the World, then of the People - on the commission for months after he'd ceased to be an editor was sloppy politics. So is the failure to appoint any national daily broadsheet editor to the commission since I left nine years ago. And so, for that matter, is a consistent inability to see the code honoured 'not only in the letter but in the full spirit'. Do Rebekah Wade and Andy Coulson, News International's red-top avengers, ever think of that when a juicy celeb story drops in their laps and the fake sheikh gets his kit on again? Is there a conscious impulsion to restraint? The difficulty, always, is in the absence of absolutes. Kaufman's team says openly that standards are better than in 1990 - but they still want more. A weary PCC admits, in the words of its director, Guy Black, that the commission is not perfect and probably never will be; or, in the riper tones of Meyer: 'Our natural condition is turbulence and restlessness; our habitat a moving landscape, not still life; and our response, not permanent revolution, but permanent evolution.' All this means constant guerrilla warfare, nigglings and gnashings of teeth. All of which creates the illusion that perfect probity and exemplary conduct can somehow be summoned from the depths if only rules are tightened, transparencies enforced, fines imposed. But it is an illusion. A free press is supposed to live in permanent tension with authority. Would it be better if the press were regulated as broadcasting is regulated, by statute and appointee control? Tony's ex-cronies rule the roost? It wouldn't stop complaints. The Broadcasting Standards Commission got 7,000 of them last year. But it wouldn't work, either. A competitive press, everywhere in the world, is built to be confrontational and campaigning. All the things broadcasting is not. We are a link in the chain of democracy. The PCC, spreading its methods around the world from Sri Lanka to the Caribbean, edging politicians out of the action, has been a small step for pressmankind these past 10 years. Treat it - cold-eyed and unsentimentally - for what it is: a third way between restriction and the freedom America still enjoys. Don't expect too much, though, for freedom is usually messy and disappointing. Always remember that chains can break.",
  "title": "Peter Preston: It's time to rein back the red-top avengers",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "business/business",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Complaints about tabloid excesses are blighting a press watchdog with a lot to be proud of, writes Peter Preston",
  "id": "media/2003/jun/22/pressandpublishing.business",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}