{
  "content": "The Massachusetts Institute of Technology has released a long-awaited review of its involvement in the prosecution of Aaron Swartz, who was facing charges for hacking into the university's computers when he killed himself in January. The 182-page report finds that school officials did not request federal prosecution of Swartz, and that MIT was not consulted about the charges or punishment, but it also questions the school's decision not to intervene in court proceedings. Swartz had been federally indicted on 13 felony charges at the time of his death and was facing up to $1m in fines and 35 years in jail for downloading several million academic articles from the JSTOR database through the MIT computer network. The aggressive prosecution was roundly criticized following his death. \"I am confident that MIT's decisions were reasonable, appropriate and made in good faith,\" said MIT president L Rafael Reif in a statement (pdf). He said the report also makes clear that the school did not \"target\" Swartz. According to the report, MIT administrators did not know Swartz was the person who had hacked into their networks until his arrest on 6 January 2011. The school also did not intend to \"call in the feds\" to take over the investigation, saying the presence of a secret service agent at his arrest was not their intention, \"but a recognized possibility,\" when they alerted authorities that its network was compromised. The school said it did not request a criminal prosecution be brought against Swartz and adopted a neutral position early in the prosecution. Though they issued no public statements, \"MIT did inform the prosecution that it was not seeking punishment for Swartz, and it did inform the defense that it was not seeking any civil remedy from him.\" \"MIT took the position that US v Swartz was simply a lawsuit to which it was not a party, although it did inform the US attorney's office that the prosecution should not be under the impression that MIT wanted jail time for Aaron Swartz. MIT did not say it was actually opposed to jail time,\" the report said. According to the report, prior to his death, \"the MIT community paid scant attention\" to Swartz's prosecution and few people expressed concerns to the administration about the case. However, Swartz's father, a consultant to the MIT lab and former student there, asked MIT to aid efforts to have the charges dropped or to get a plea deal that would not have jail time. Two faculty members advocated a similar appeal. In choosing the position of neutrality, the report says the school did not consider Swartz's contributions to internet technology and was not critical enough of the US government's \"overtly aggressive prosecution.\" MIT also did not account for Swartz's prosecution under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, which the report called \" a poorly drafted and questionable criminal law.\" That law has been widely criticised since Swartz's death. \"MIT's position may have been prudent, but it did not duly take into account the wider background of information policy against which the prosecution played out and in which MIT people have traditionally been passionate leaders,\" it concludes. Reif asked computer science professor Hal Abelson to lead a review the school's involvement in his prosecution in January with assistance from other members of the MIT staff. The group consulted 10,000 documents and conducted interviews with 50 people to assess the school's involvement in the case. \"Only Swartz knows why he committed suicide,\" the report said. \"However, for the final 24 months of his life, he was the subject of a vigorous investigation and prosecution by the US Department of Justice, with an indictment and then a superseding indictment that could have resulted in years in prison.\"",
  "title": "MIT did not target Aaron Swartz before federal prosecution, review finds",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/aaron-swartz",
    "education/mit-massachusetts-institute-of-technology",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/reddit",
    "technology/internet",
    "us-news/us-crime"
  ],
  "lead": "School did not request federal punishment of Swartz for alleged hacking offences but did not intervene in court proceedings",
  "id": "technology/2013/jul/30/mit-review-aaron-swartz-federal-prosecution",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}