{
  "content": "\"Share with friends, anonymously,\" runs the tagline for smartphone app Secret. But what to do if that anonymity starts to break down, or if the secrets being shared are distinctly unfriendly? The popular but controversial social Android and iOS app is facing new scrutiny of its security and ethics policies this week, with its crackdown on cyberbullying undermined by claims that hackers can uncover people's posts in the app using nothing more than their email addresses. The latter claims come from \"white-hat\" hacking company Rhino Security Labs, which searches for loopholes in companies' online security, but then alert them to the risks rather than taking advantage. The company discovered that it was possible to uncover a specific friend's Secret posts by creating at least seven fake accounts on the app, and knowing the email address of the friend. Wired journalist Kevin Poulsen explained how Rhino Security Labs' Ben Caudill exploited the loophole: \"Next, he deleted everything from his iPhone's contact list, and added the seven fake e-mail addresses as contacts. When he was done, he added one more contact: the e-mail address of the person whose secrets he wanted to unmask\u2014me. Then he signed up for another new Secret account and synced his contacts. He now had a new, blank Secret feed that followed eight accounts: seven bot accounts created and controlled by him, and mine. Anything that appeared as posted by a 'friend' logically belonged to me.\" Caudill's company submitted its findings to Secret as part of the company's \"bug bounty\" program, which encourages hackers to attempt to crack its security. Wired claims that 42 such loopholes have been fixed since February. \"As near as we can tell this hasn't been exploited in any meaningful way,\" the company's chief executive David Byttow said about the latest bug. \"But we have to take action to determine that.\" The thought of an anonymous sharing app being not so anonymous after all should bring a shiver to the spine of users who've been using Secret to blast employers and colleagues, or share sensitive information about their own personal lives. They might also ask themselves why they were so confident in the security of a brand new app from a new startup in the first place, though. Secret's attempts to show it is taking a responsible approach by rewarding white-hat hackers for helping it improve its security sits alongside its new stance on cyberbullying \u2013 albeit a stance taken after criticism of the company's policy. Technology industry site PandoDaily reported that a campaigner for awareness of teenage suicide had failed to engage Secret in discussions with mental health groups about its app \u2013 complete with the accusation that the company was \"too busy raising money to care\". Secret has since published details about an update to its app designed to make cyberbullying more difficult: \"We've always analysed posts up-front to detect names. Now, our system is more sophisticated and also detects keywords, sentiment, and photos of people. If we detect a potential violation of guidelines, we offer the author an opportunity to 're-think' their decision before they post. If the author proceeds with posting, our systems and teams will review it against our guidelines. We've learned that the vast majority of great secrets don't have names in them, and the few that do usually aren't productive and can even be harmful. We've changed our position on the use of real names and, in addition to discouraging their use, we're actively blocking posts containing names of private individuals whenever possible. We will invest heavily here to make sure the system improves over time.\" Secret is far from the first app to be scrutinised over cyberbullying \u2013 Q&amp;A app Ask.fm has been linked with several teenagers' suicides in recent years, with its new owner Ask.com promising this month that the app will be \"shut down\" if its cyberbullying problems cannot be fixed. In January, child-protection charity Childline reported that its counselling for online bullying \u2013 including through mobile apps \u2013 rose by 87% in 2013, with 84% of all its contacts in this category from 12-18 year-olds. Secret is currently the subject of a preliminary injunction in Brazil calling for Apple and Google to remove it from their app stores and from the smartphones of people that have installed it. However, this is about Brazilian legislation around anonymous freedom of expression, rather than specific cyberbullying fears.",
  "title": "Your secrets may not be safe with anonymous sharing app Secret",
  "lead": "App startup cracks down on cyberbullying, but faces renewed scrutiny over security loopholes exploited by hackers. By Stuart Dredge",
  "tags": [
    "technology/apps",
    "technology/smartphones",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/hacking"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2014/aug/26/secret-app-cyberbullying-security-hackers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}