{
  "content": "MySpace has been using the ubiquitous profile of founder Tom Anderson to research improvements to the site ahead of a major redesign to be introduced from Monday, June 16. The new-look site will include an enhanced TV player, an extensive search tool and a more advertiser-focused start page. Anderson's profile appears on every new MySpace profile by default, but users do not always realise the character is that of Tom Anderson, one of the founders of the social networking site and now president of the News Corp-owned firm. Feedback sent to Tom's profile, as well as user testing, online surveys and focus groups, all informed the redesign, which rolls out incrementally over the next week. Anderson said the work was just the first part of an overhaul of the site. \"A year ago we set out on a path to rethink the way people interact with the fundamental features of MySpace,\" he said. \"By the early autumn we expect to reveal an entirely new and remixed MySpace that provides a more intuitive, customisable, and private experience.\" On Monday, a new search tool built using the open-source Lucene search engine will structure MySpace search results according to the location and interest of the user. These results will be split into the five most popular categories of people, music, TV, MySpace searches and general web searches. MySpace recorded around 20bn search requests in the past year, the site said, and this is the first time the company has contributed its resources to the development of an open-source software project. A new version of MySpace's TV player, which was developed in-house, will launch on Tuesday with improved tools for sharing and navigating content as well as a support for high-definition and full-screen. The main page of the site is being restructured from Wednesday, June 18, to appeal more heavily to advertisers in a format that allows them to take over the whole page. On the same day a new site navigation tool will give easier access to messaging services, music and TV content. MySpace has also noted the popularity of profile designs offered by third-party developers and will also introduce personalisation tools, though profiles can still be edited by hand-coding. The redesign is the first since the site launched in January 2004 and will roll out internationally. During April, MySpace reached 115.7 million unique users globally, according to comScore, but has been overtaken by Facebook for the first time. The rival social networking site, which is also undergoing a redesign, had 116.4 million unique users for the same month, according to comScore. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "MySpace redesigns site with improved TV player and start page",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/myspace",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "MySpace is to begin a major redesign with improvements including an enhanced TV player, an extensive search tool and a more advertiser-focused start page. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "media/2008/jun/13/myspace.digitalmedia",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}