{
  "content": "The Information Commissioner has ruled that Google is unlikely to have collected \"significant amounts of personal data\" with its StreetView mapping cars. The decision was described by privacy campaigners Big Brother Watch as \"farcical\". The independent information watchdog has been looking at the data collected by Google to see whether it infringes personal privacy, and has now judged that there is \"no evidence as yet that the data captured by Google has caused or could cause any individual detriment\". In a statement to the press, the Information Commissioner's Office said: \"While Google considered it unlikely that it had collected anything other than fragments of content, we wanted to make our own judgment as to the likelihood that significant personal data had been retained and, if so, the extent of any intrusion. \"The information we saw does not include meaningful personal details that could be linked to an identifiable person. As we have only seen samples of the records collected in the UK we recognise that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals. \"However, on the basis of the samples we saw we are satisfied so far that it is unlikely that Google will have captured significant amounts of personal data. \"There is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by Google has caused or could cause any individual detriment. Nevertheless it was wrong to collect the information. We will be alerting Privacy International and others who have complained to us of our position. The Information Commissioner is taking a responsible and proportionate approach to this case. However, we remain vigilant and will be reviewing any relevant findings and evidence from our international counterparts' investigations.\" Google is facing investigations around the world \u2013 including in the UK \u2013 for its interception of personal data about home wireless networks, taken from the company's StreetView mapping cars. The search giant admitted to inadvertently intercepting extracts of personal data in May. The Big Brother Watch director, Alex Deane, described the findings as a \"whitewash\". Speaking to the Guardian, he said: \"This decision is little short of farcical. Information commissioners all around the world are investigating Google's Wi-Fi intrusion. In Britain alone, our commissioner has whitewashed the company's wrongdoing. \"The Metropolitan police are currently investigating Google over this very issue. If the allegations against Google merit an investigation by the police, who have to consider the criminal standard of fault, how can those allegations not be said to merit an investigation by the ICO? \"The ICO has really let British people down. We deserve better from those who are given the responsibility of protecting our privacy.\" The ICO came in for criticism earlier this month from the pressure group Privacy International, which requested an investigation into Google's actions by the Metropolitan police. Speaking at a public debate on Google and privacy, the Privacy International director, Simon Davies, accused the office of being \"both spineless and gutless\" in its approach to the issue. Google was unavailable for comment when contacted.",
  "title": "Google Wi-Fi data capture cleared by Information Commissioner",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/google-street-view",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Ruling that gathering of personal data by StreetView mapping cars did no harm described as 'farcical' by privacy campaigners",
  "id": "technology/2010/jul/29/google-streetview-information-commissioner",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}