{
  "content": "Model Naomi Campbell today claimed a Mirror journalist's notes proved the tip-off about her attendance at a Narcotics Anonymous session could not have come from a member of the public. At a packed session at the high court, she claimed the newspaper was complicit in a breach of confidence by a close friend, who revealed she was attending NA meetings at a venue on the King's Road. \"As is clear from the article and the journalist's notes, the information must have come from someone other than a passing photographer, since the Mirror knew which meetings I was attending and arranged for a photographer to photograph me and my fellow attendees as we left the lunchtime meeting,\" she said in a witness statement for the court. The 31-year-old model also argued the Mirror had invaded her privacy by publishing a photo of her leaving the meeting. \"Of course, it was distressing to be branded a drug addict but what I found particularly unpleasant and intrusive was the Mirror printed details of my treatment and photographed me outside one of the counselling sessions,\" she told the court. Campbell is also making a claim under the Data Protection Act after it was alleged the Mirror journalist Polly Graham obtained private details of her NA meetings. She is attempting to set a precedent for a UK privacy law by arguing the Mirror violated her right to privacy. But lawyers representing Mirror Group Newspapers argued a privacy law was the domain of politicians and not the judiciary. Campbell at first appeared shy and nervous under cross-examination from Desmond Browne QC, appearing for the defence. Wearing a grey trouser-suit and pink tie, the model was asked to raise her voice as her short replies could barely be heard by the court. When asked whether she had used illegal drugs, Campbell answered \"yes\" and admitted she had become aware of her drugs problem in 1997. The Mirror claimed Campbell forfeited her right to privacy by constantly giving interviews, in which she exchanged details of her family and private life in return for plugs for her business ventures. Piers Morgan, the editor of the Mirror, is expected to give evidence to the court later today.",
  "title": "Campbell accuses Mirror of breach of confidence",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/medialaw",
    "fashion/models",
    "media/press-freedom",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy",
    "fashion/naomi-campbell"
  ],
  "lead": "Naomi Campbell has claimed a journalist's notes prove the tip-off about her drug counselling could not have come from a member of the public. By Dan Milmo",
  "id": "media/2002/feb/11/pressandpublishing.privacy1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}