{
  "content": "A 49-year-old mother who allegedly used MySpace to drive her child's 13-year-old classmate to suicide was charged with conspiracy by the US government today. After her daughter clashed in 2006 with young Megan Meier, 13, Missouri resident Lori Drew created a fake MySpace account to pose as a boy and flirt with Meier. When Drew began using her online identity to taunt Meier, the girl descended into depression and hanged herself. Drew was indicted today for conspiracy and accessing protected computers without authorisation to inflict emotional distress. She faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison. \"Any adult who uses the internet or a social gathering website to bully or harass another person, particularly a young teenage girl, needs to realize that their actions can have serious consequences,\" Los Angeles federal prosecutor Thomas O'Brien, who brought the charges, said in a statement. The case was filed in California, where MySpace is headquartered, rather than the home state of Meier and Drew. The tragic fate of Meier, who struggled to cope with school tormentors and self-esteem issues before her MySpace run-in, has inspired states to propose a ban on \"cyber-bullying\". The US media seized upon the case to warn parents of the dangers of social networking websites. Meanwhile, the community shared by the Drews and Meiers has been wracked by protests and tensions from both sides. Megan Meier's parents are divorcing in the wake of the suicide, and Drew has been targeted by angry protestors. Drew denies sending Meier vicious MySpace messages telling the 13-year old the world would be better off without her after four weeks of flirtatious online communications. An employee of Drew's recently told ABC news that she created the fake MySpace identity at Drew's behest and sent cruel messages to drive Meier away from the account.",
  "title": "Mother charged with conspiracy by US government over MySpace suicide",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "us-news/us-news",
    "technology/myspace",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "A 49-year-old mother who allegedly used MySpace to drive her child's 13-year-old classmate to suicide was charged with conspiracy by the US government today",
  "id": "world/2008/may/15/usa.myspace",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}