{
  "content": "On 13 November, a day pretty much chosen at random, @joejglenton tweeted a link to Guardian readers' letters responding to his piece on the trial of Marine A, @John_Ellam favourited our retweet of a response by ITV news presenter @CharleneWhite to criticism of her not wearing a poppy on air, @donalfallon tweeted to say \"fair play\" to us for publishing a letter from Brian Hanley pointing out that he wasn't a \"nationalist historian\" as we'd said, and @WalesSWP followed us. (Thank you, @WalesSWP.) Yes, @guardianletters is on Twitter. Or, as I would prefer to say, uses Twitter. In fact we have been using Twitter for some time, via an automatic posting of the day's letters. But in recent months we have actively been trying out using the medium in various ways to complement and support our letters page. That might seem a little odd, to those who see this page as the last bastion of dead-tree journalism. But more and more people are reading our letters online (where they appear the evening before they are published in print). I still have reservations about some of the outpourings of the Twittersphere. Being \"on\" Twitter certainly seems to involve a self-indulgence bordering on narcissism among some of its most active users. The idea of \"having a debate\" on Twitter seems risible \u2013 140-character exchanges are more redolent of two street mobs yelling slogans at each other. And the slightly stomach-churning tweets welcoming some new well-known name to Twitter have the whiff of an exclusive freemasonry. We should also perhaps worry about the use of the term \"follower\", when @justinbieber has 47 million of them, and @stephenfry 6 million. But you wouldn't ban the phone because teenagers use it to spend all day giggling at each other. Twitter is now an integral part of journalism and \u2013 subject to resources \u2013 one we are increasingly integrating into our day. First, to keep us on the letters desk abreast with what is happening. One of our nightmares is putting together a 1,000-word package of letters demanding minister X resigns, only to find he already did, a couple of hours before we had finished editing them. And with an ever-expanding news operation spanning all media, following our own colleagues helps make sure we don't shape our letters page debates in a bubble, and can cross-reference to content elsewhere in the paper or on the website. Though a Scottish university study found that the news wires are still in the lead when it comes to breaking news, Twitter has it all in one place. If you are following a good enough spread of users, it's a ticker tape of whatever worlds you are plugged into, politics, sport or whatever. It can also give us a broader insight into what, among the Guardian's wide-ranging output, is exercising readers \u2013 or what has amused them. So be warned, if that profound insight you sent us for the briefs column is all over the internet, we're on to you. On the other side of the equation, we are retweeting items that reinforce the debates our readers are engaged in \u2013 whether links to commentary by leading columnists or bloggers, speeches by ministers and MPs, comments from unions, lobby groups, businesses etc, aiming to link our contributors into the wider conversation. While we have very limited time and resources to devote to Twitter on the ever-busy letters desk, we will continue to experiment with it. Responding to a request from @jackieschneider last month, we tried out listing Twitter addresses under published letters. As she said, there are many interesting letter writers who readers might like to follow on Twitter or blogs if they knew where to find them. We have also tried out tweeting the briefest of brief letters, as a kind of running vox pop, as well as giving readers on Twitter an idea of what letters are coming in and alerting them to what is coming up. Letter writers are self-evidently some of our most committed readers, so we hope they will join us in developing an online community as well, by following us on Twitter, helping to spread our always excellent content online, and giving us their Twitter address so letter writer can tweet unto letter writer. Follow us on Twitter: @guardianletters",
  "title": "Open door: The letters editor on\u2026 Twitter and the last bastion of dead-tree journalism",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/theguardian",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "I still have reservations about some of the outpourings of the Twittersphere. But it does have its uses, even for the letters desk",
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/nov/24/letters-editor-twitter-dead-tree-journalism",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}