{
  "content": "'Tis the season for holiday parties \u2013 both those we get asked to, and those we don't. Last week I received a last-minute invitation to the Paris Review office party. Stepping off the elevators, I was greeted by an empty bottle of Jim Beam sitting on top of a hundred coat pile-up in the hallway. Inside, the office was jammed with A-list writers and C-list celebrities; the bookshelves jammed with back issues and abandoned plastic tumblers of murky liquids and cigarette butts. I took one look around the room and thought: I have arrived. Never mind the fact that I'd arrived as the plus one of a plus one. I mentioned the party to a colleague the next day, at another holiday party to which he and I were legitimately invited (albeit only to the cocktail hour portion and not the sit-down dinner that followed). He had left too early the night before to be extended an invitation to the Paris Review, and was lamenting his hasty departure. The look on his face could have been summed up in one Twitter hashtag: #fomo. Fear Of Missing Out. What I didn't tell him was that there was a FOMO within the FOMO at the party. Everyone was sizing each other up, evaluating the other's social standing. (Writers \u2013 myself included \u2013 are a disgustingly insecure lot.) It's a common practice at most literary soirees, along with conversations peppered with what you might call the Over the Shoulder Scan (OSS) where people partly engage with you but mostly scope out the rest of the room over your shoulder, to see if they can \"trade up\" for a better partner. After all, who didn't want to try to catch that guy from HBO's Girls \u2013 you know, the one who's basically homeless, with the underage girlfriend? It's a behavior I abhor and yet sadly have been guilty of myself (though I try my best to reserve the OSS only for when I'm being lectured at by a certain breed of older man). When you live in a competitive city like New York or London and you work in an equally competitive industry like the media, each missed opportunity feels like an endless game of FOMO. Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram feeds bear (boast) the good times being had by all but you. It is hard not to take these exclusions personally, especially for writerly types \u2013 an already fragile, overly-sensitive bunch that tends to read nuance into everything: semi-colons, pregnant pauses, skipped-over invites. But FOMO is not just reserved for the literati; the dignitaries that were not snapped in President Obama's recent funereal \"selfie\" surely experienced at least a modicum of FOMO for not being included in that picture, however gauche. Perhaps even a handful considered \"photo-bombing\" \u2013 that desperate motion of flinging oneself into the camera frame \u2013 as a last-ditch effort to counterstrike the Fear Of Missing Out. If you are one of those people who still reaches to spin the dial even when a perfectly good song is playing on the radio (just to see if something better is out there), then you are what is known as a \"maximizer\" \u2013 someone \"who seeks and accepts only the best\", writes Barry Schwartz, professor of psychology at Swarthmore College and author of The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less. Maximizers (or, essentially, those who suffer from chronic FOMO) must be assured that every purchase or decision was the best that could be made\u2026. As a decision strategy, maximizing creates a daunting task, which becomes all the more daunting as the number of options increase. If our options are limited, that is, we remain blissfully ignorant of all those parties and all those \"better\" people to talk to at those parties then we can feel satisfied that we've chosen the best possible option at the time. But in this age of personal information oversharing, blissful ignorance is no longer possible. There is no ceiling to all the pleasurable opportunities being enjoyed by everyone surrounding you, excluding you. Hence: FOMO. We need to own up to feeling FOMO. Yes, constant belly-aching about missed opportunities is both puerile and petty. But it's also primal, harkening back to the age old fear of abandonment \u2013 the pack is going-going-gone without you. Any parent who's had to walk out on his or her child, only to be met with an ear-piercing scream, can surely relate. You might argue that if we were all comfortable with our station in life, then concepts like FOMO would cease to exist entirely (along with other similarly silly-sounding hashtag acronyms). If only we were there as a society. But if you have never experienced FOMO, then you've either reached Nirvana, or (more likely) you've become too comfortable with your station. In other words, you've grown complacent. This holiday season, we're all likely to feel a little FOMO (or better said, a little extra). There will always be another missed invitation. But these exclusions, in a perverse way, keep us humble, serving as a reminder that we haven't yet arrived. The Fear of Missing Out motivates us to strive for more. (So long as we keep those pesky Over the Shoulder Scans to a minimum.) And a little maximization \u2013 in moderation \u2013 is not a bad thing.",
  "title": "Fear Of Missing Out (#Fomo) takes on a whole new level at Christmas | Patricia Park",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "us-news/new-york",
    "culture/culture",
    "books/books",
    "lifeandstyle/christmas"
  ],
  "lead": "Patricia Park: In a competitive city like New York or London, each missed opportunity feels like an endless game of trying to keep up",
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/dec/22/fear-of-missing-out-fomo-christmas",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}