{
  "content": "A few weeks ago the Press Gazette was preparing an election special and it asked what advice I would give to a journalist covering the campaign. \"Get out of the office and meet some real people,\" I replied. Not that I've done so myself. Since Gordon Brown went to the Palace, I have been at my desk writing the Guardian's live election blog non-stop, soaking up news from Sky, the BBC, Twitter and occasionally something old-fashioned such as the phone. With lots of help from colleagues, I have been writing up to 14,000 words a day. I feel that I've followed the election as closely as anyone. Yet I haven't interviewed a single real voter. Instead, I watched the election on TV, and it turned out that that was where the action was, after all. The 2010 campaign will be remembered for what Brown was heard saying about Gillian Duffy on a TV microphone \u2013 an exhilarating tragicomedy which did make me wonder whether the electoral process was going completely insane \u2013 and for the leaders' debates. In some respects their influence has been overstated. David Cameron didn't go up in the polls because he won the third debate; I'm pretty sure that he was deemed to win the third debate because he was going up in the polls already. But the first debate gave the Liberal Democrats an extraordinary boost and it's possible this could even lead to the collapse of that creaky, anachronistic edifice, the Westminster two-party political system. If so, an event championed by Rupert Murdoch's Sky will have succeeded where Roy Jenkins's SDP failed. Sorry, Press Gazette, I was wrong. It's always nice to get out of the office. But if you really wanted to understand the election, all you needed was a screen.",
  "title": "Andrew Sparrow's election: all I needed was a television",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/general-election-2010",
    "tv-and-radio/tv-and-radio",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/theguardian",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/sky-news",
    "media/bbc",
    "politics/gillian-duffy",
    "politics/gordon-brown"
  ],
  "lead": "The election will be remembered for what Gordon Brown said about Gillian Duffy on Sky News. And I was there, sort of",
  "id": "politics/2010/may/05/election-television-gordon-brown-duffy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}