{
  "content": "The demand for a law of privacy will not go away. Last Wednesday a Guardian/ICM opinion poll showed that 69% of the population are in favour of a privacy law. Equally, 69% believed that the royal family should be protected from media intrusion, scoring a higher protection rating than any other group. This was so even before CBS broadcast photographs of Diana taken moments after the car crash in which she died. Will the combination of this particularly revolting intrusion into personal privacy with a public wish for a privacy law make any difference? First, it has to be pointed out that the images have not been broadcast in this country and it is unlikely that they will ever be. Similar photographs were available immediately after the crash, but were rejected by newsdesks. It is hard to see them taking a different view now. Use of the photographs would breach the Press Complaints Commission (PCC) code and also the broadcasting code governed by Ofcom. These codes contain provisions echoing those of the Human Rights Act requiring respect for private and family life and restricting intrusion into personal grief or shock. Neither the PCC nor Ofcom can prevent publication, nor as regulatory bodies can they award damages or costs. Any complaint before the courts would have to be brought under the heading of confidentiality. The law of confidentiality was not designed to deal with privacy, but in a series of cases the English courts have tried to stretch it to cover that area. There are strong arguments that the images have the quality of confidence and that anyone receiving them is bound by a duty to keep them confidential. At least, that would have been the case before CBS transmitted them: once confidential information is put in the public domain it loses its quality of confidence and becomes practically impossible to protect. Thus the law of confidence would be ineffective in preventing publication of these images in England now, even though they remain private and their use would be a clear breach of the Human Rights Act and of the press and broadcasting codes. The gap in the law between privacy and confidence was first highlighted in 1990 when actor Gorden Kaye was in hospital with brain injuries. A Sunday Sport journalist barged into his room to take photographs and cobbled together an interview. Although the court of appeal stated that \"If ever a person has a right to be let alone by strangers with no public interest to pursue, it must surely be when he lies in hospital recovering from brain surgery,\" it recognised that Kaye had no privacy under English law, nor was he protected by confidentiality. It went on to say that the facts of the case were \"a graphic illustration\" of the desirability of parliament considering a law to protect the privacy of individuals. The Human Rights Act was duly enacted in 1998, introducing opposing principles of respect for private and family life and freedom of expression but no distinct right of action in privacy. It looked as if a separate law of privacy might evolve, but that hope was squashed in the Douglas and Zeta-Jones litigation against Hello! magazine. Although an early judgment suggested that the Human Rights Act implied a free-standing right of privacy, that view did not prevail. In this case, as in numerous other celebrity actions, the court refused to formulate a separate law of privacy, recycling the law of confidence instead. Understandably, judges are reluctant to develop a privacy law on the hoof. They see it as parliament's responsibility, but have noted that if it fails to act, the courts will create the law \"bit by bit at the expense of litigants and with inevitable delays and uncertainty\". Two recent complaints by ordinary people are revealing. Geoffrey Peck was filmed with a knife on Brentwood High Street on CCTV; he was ill and had tried to slash his wrists. The footage was sold to and broadcast by Anglia Television and the BBC. Having tried unsuccessfully to get a remedy for this invasion of his private life, Peck complained to the European court of human rights, which last year awarded him \u20ac 11,800 and ruled that the English law had failed to protect his privacy. The next case is in some ways even more shocking. In October 2003 the House of Lords dismissed an appeal by two members of the Wainwright family who claimed that strip searches of them when visiting a relative in prison amounted to an invasion of privacy. The Lords said that the question of privacy \"must wait for another day\" and that reform could be achieved only by parliament passing new laws. At almost exactly the same time, the government rejected a select committee's findings on privacy and media intrusion that recommended reform. The government said that self-regulation was enough. This is an unhappy set of circumstances. Most people in this country believe there is a real need for a privacy law. Those who suffer intrusion have no legal remedy. Judges who hear cases dealing with privacy issues say it is for parliament to reform the law in an area that raises questions about fundamental freedoms, not for the courts to reinterpret it. The government alone believes that things are all right as they stand. Although it is arguable that self-regulation has worked in relation to the Diana photographs because the English media have not used them, the law is intellectually dishonest and socially inadequate. Lack of legal clarity is no more in the interest of the media than of those who suffer from intrusion. Where there is a clash between the fundamental rights of freedom of expression and privacy, it should not be beyond parliament to formulate a law to protect all levels of society, whether royals or commoners. \u00b7 Martin Soames is a media litigation partner at DLA",
  "title": "Whose life is it anyway?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "media/cbs",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "The broadcast last week by CBS of photos of the dying Diana has reawakened demand for a privacy law.  Martin Soames  argues that it is time for the government to take action.",
  "id": "media/2004/apr/26/mondaymediasection.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}