{
  "content": "Here's an intriguing one: Microsoft User Research wants to find out more about iPad users - in detail, via a two-hour, in-depth study that it's going to carry out at its campus over the next week or so. Remarkably, the company openly advertised its desire to connect with iPad owners \"for an upcoming study to get feedback\" on a Facebook page - though within hours of going up, the page was shut down. Mistake, or was the quota filled rapidly enough to satisfy everything that the company wanted? Given that it shut down its Courier project, which to some had looked like a viable (or at least interesting) alternative to the iPad, and that HP is reported to have shifted away from Windows 7 for its tablet/slate offering to its newly-acquired Palm OS (though a slide on Steve Ballmer's presentation the other day suggested that HP is back in the Windows fold for tablets/slates: we shall see), this doesn't look promising. Why? Because if Microsoft has to study how people use the iPad at this juncture, it is going to take it a very long time - six months? Nine months? - to embed whatever it learns into software. Then that software has to go out to the hardware manufacturers, who have to test it against their prototypes, refine, tweak... and then get out to market. Obviously, we'd love to hear from any readers who are based up in Redmond and have been accepted for the study. What did they want to know? What did they test? Tell us everything, by email (charles.arthur@theguardian.com is a good one). And if you were at Microsoft User Research, what lessons would you be looking to learn from the iPad?",
  "title": "Microsoft seeks iPad users for in-depth study - via Facebook",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/microsoft",
    "technology/ipad",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": "Why is a company that insists its partners will announce a slew of tablets and slates asking to find out how Apple users interact with theirs?",
  "id": "technology/blog/2010/jul/13/microsoft-ipad-study-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}