{
  "content": "So here we go again. French investigators are examining the IAAF's decision to award the 2021 World Athletics Championships to Nike's hometown of Eugene, Oregon, without an open competition. The news certainly had the IAAF president, Britain's Sebastian Coe, sprinting to the studios to defend his conduct in yet another murky sporting corruption drama that saps public confidence. Defence contractors, dodgy pharma pricing, greedy supermarkets and banks. Hitherto exemplary car companies like VW fiddling their emissions software. Town hall scams exposed among others by newspapers, a few of which engaged in illegal phone hacking. The list seems endless. As Thursday's Guardian exposure of exploitative working conditions at Sports Direct show, even innocent sportswear worn by millions of paying customers can come to seem grubby. In a week when the spotlight is again on barely concealed official efforts to impose restrictions on the UK's own Freedom of Information Act (FoI) it's worth wondering if the public benefits from relentless exposure and transparency? Or will the corrosive and cumulative impact help to push desperate or bewildered voters into the arms of much more serious scoundrels, the Trumps or Le Pens, who are bigger and better liars? The redoubtable Daily Mail has no doubt. Thursday's edition blasts away with both barrels at would-be restrictors of FoI who would impose fees and other deterrents on searchers for truth. Last month, the paper ran a big series \u2013 here's a sample \u2013 of public sector scams, mostly greed at the top. FoI helped it reveal some pretty bad behaviour. Well done again, Daily Mail. But Thursday's edition also reveals questionable activities closer to home. For example, it ran a \"Trump was Right\" article about parts of London being no-go areas to the police on the say-so of half a dozen anonymous officers, some of its data culled from a rightwing website. The Mail can be bold and brilliantly thorough in its campaigns, but this was shoddy and irresponsible stuff. It will be recycled around the world to no one's benefit. That's what the philosopher, Onora O'Neill, meant more than a decade ago when she used her Reith lectures in 2002 to challenge the unaccountable right of the press to proclaim its freedoms, often at the expense of others. How are readers to know what's true or untrue without proper accountability, she asked? All this was pre-phone hacking, pre-Leveson and the unresolved showdown over press regulation from which David Cameron has tiptoed away in search of the easy life he won't get. Rebekah \"Acquitted\" Brooks is back at her desk in the Murdoch empire and probably back on Dave's Christmas card list, luckier than many ex-News of the World staff and their jailed contacts. It's a scandal, but the Mail is right to assert that greater public good is served by an assertive media, never more so than now when so much bad behaviour seems to be around. Are things getting better or worse? Is a cover-up more comforting to citizens than a fearless, unsettling expos\u00e9? Don't snort with derision. Ugly things sometimes happen to brave whistleblowers, as they did to Mid Staffs NHS trust families who spoke out when medical staff didn't. It's also tempting for many people in Britain to say corruption is the inevitable consequence of unbridled (I really mean \"under-bridled\") free market capitalism, those fraudulent bank scandals and the rest. That's too simple, too self-flagellating and against the run of evidence. After all, last month's World Anti-Doping Agency expos\u00e9 was directed primarily against Russia, a supposedly progressive experiment in totalitarian social control for most of the 20th century, now a strange hybrid of oligarch capitalism, KGB policing and gangsterism. Suffering, as it does, from challenging geography and weak borders, poor Russia has never enjoyed the luxury of living under the rule of law. We have to fight every day to uphold ours. Some people will cheat if they think they can get away with it. The more open a society is the harder that will be because the chances of exposure are greater. If they're desperate, very greedy or arrogantly clever some people will still take huge risks \u2013 and some (we must assume) will get away with it. In every scandal it's all too often the little guys \u2013 the currency traders or the drug mules \u2013 who get caught and go to jail, not the top folk. In 2013, the parliamentary commission on banking standards proposed that senior managers should be held responsible for their underlings' misconduct, even if they had no specific knowledge of it (they should have done). At the time the government agreed, but is now backtracking under industry pressure, just like the pressure from the press over its own regulation. The Americans are generally better at aiming high than European prosecutors. Without knowing much detail I think it's safe to assume North Korea, a sealed hereditary tyranny, is pretty unaccountable and pretty corrupt. Sure enough it comes second (after Somalia, whose problems are a lack of government) in Transparency International's league table. So what's needed to keep folk honest, in track events as well as investment banking, is the prospect of being found out. What does that require? Relatively honest politicians and public officials, especially at lower levels, where corruption bites hardest in poor countries. The Arab spring of 2011 started when a Tunisian street trader killed himself in 2010 after a row with an official. Decent regulation, properly enforced in ways that encourage enterprise rather than reward established business or cronies, is important too. So is a press, free enough, willing and able to take on the bad boys, arouse public opinion and see the challenge through to the courts despite the threats of overpaid gagging lawyers. Given the oligarch ownership of much of the press (the BBC chased the IAAF story), independent courts may be the most important ingredient in the mix. Apart from poorly enforced regulation (sex crimes as well as bank fraud, you may feel) Britain does fairly well on most of these counts. The unsatisfactory funding of political parties remains \u2013 as it does in the US and many other places \u2013 a troubling source of vulnerability to rich paymasters, unions and oligarchs not quite alike. Where does this all leave FoI reform? Ministers want to see its packed review committee propose charges for FoI requests, to increase their own power to reject applications on grounds of cost and to exempt wider classes of discussions to permit greater candour inside government instead of resorting to \"read and eat this\" Post-it notes. For hard-pressed local government and other public bodies, as well as for the grandees of Whitehall, there are real issues here of cost (time spent on FoI can be huge) as well as of confidentiality, commercial as well as personal, and policy varieties. The press, often keen to slap charges on any public service except parking, fails to acknowledge them or its own vested interest. As with press regulation, grownups should be able to achieve sensible compromises that enhance public trust in both government and media. Alas, they don't trust each other.",
  "title": "Trust is in short supply in our scandalised nation",
  "lead": "It's worth wondering if the public benefits from freedom of information's relentless exposure or whether it has a corrosive impact on opinions",
  "tags": [
    "politics/freedomofinformation",
    "media/privacy",
    "sport/wada",
    "sport/drugs-in-sport",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/pauldacre",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "politics/blog/2015/dec/10/trust-short-supply-scandalised-nation-freedom-information",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}