{
  "content": "On the social networking site Bebo, a profile stands for a girl who is no longer alive. Friends of Natasha Randall, who committed suicide last Thursday, have posted messages and videos on a virtual \"remembrance wall\". It looks beautiful, but there has been widespread concern (though now played down by police) that such sites encourage a culture of martyrdom, perpetuating the deaths they are designed to commemorate. Indeed, these memorial sites, with their coloured photos, songs and messages, aren't unlike the martyr sites set up for suicide bombers. The public veneration such acts receive is widely thought to contribute to the high number of suicides occurring throughout the modern world. I don't doubt that these websites - be they in Arabic or English - play a causal role in increasing suicides, but that's not the interesting question - the interesting question is why they do. And if it is about achieving martyrdom, we have to go beyond that and ask why certain members of our society are so attracted by that idea. I'm a young person, I use the internet every day, but I'm at precisely zero risk from these websites. Why? Because I don't feel like the only way I can give my life meaning is to become a martyr. This may be more than the seven who committed suicide, and indeed for the others who feel compelled to take their lives around the world. The seven young people who committed suicide, for example, have more in common than their connection to these sites - they also live in the same geographical region of South Wales. What kind of opportunities do kids in this area have? What kind of job prospects are there? What kind of support systems are in place for those who feel lonely or isolated? Reading some reports, you might be forgiven for thinking that just stumbling across these \"evil sites\" would be enough to trigger suicidal behaviour alone. But, like most technology, the internet does not come with inbuilt normative qualities: it is not \"good\" or \"bad\", it is a tool. And, like most tools, the normative implications it has depend on who is using it, and what they are using it for. The internet might, for example, be used to prevent suicides. Young people may find it easier to talk through their problems with the anonymity that comes with online communities, and there are certified counselling websites that can help people feel less isolated and alone. Similarly, the martyr websites in question can be both a source of support for families who know others are thinking of them, or a catalyst for copycat suicides. The influence these sites have is almost entirely dependent on the situation and perspective of those who read them. Suicide may be understood to be a kind of speaking without words. The person who commits suicide knows they are sending a message; they know the act is a statement. And it strikes me they are not saying something about the internet, but about something bigger concerning a lack of things to live for, a lack of meaning in life, a feeling of powerlessness and absence of choice. We could set up blocks to these sites, and maybe that would help in some way - but ultimately, our children would still be miserable. Far better to give them other ways of creating meaning, other ways to speak and better things to say, to ensure that they can safeguard themselves.",
  "title": "A virtual cry for help",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/bebo",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": "Rowenna Davis: The concern that social networking sites are enabling 'copycat' suicides is misplaced. It's the unhappiness of young people we should worry about",
  "id": "commentisfree/2008/jan/23/avirtualcryforhelp",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}