{
  "content": "All last week the harridans raked Catherine Zeta-Jones's pouty face with their pens. The best that could be said for her was that she was out of touch with her Swansea roots. As for the worst that could be said... well, there was no worst. A thesaurus of words meaning greedy, vainglorious, manipulative and insensitive was poured upon the Oscar nominee's raven-tressed head. It was wrong, terribly wrong of her to sue Hello! magazine for half a million, just because they gatecrashed her New York wedding, took a few unauthorised snaps, and then chartered a special jet to fly copies of Hello! to British newsstands before the official pics could appear in the rival OK! magazine. Interestingly, It seems to have been understood from the start that it is Zeta- Jones who is the villain here, her husband escaping almost all charges - save that of being 58. It was her appearance in the witness box last Monday that provoked the most acid to be secreted from the deep ducts of Britain's red-top columnesses. 'I have the right to privacy, to have my wedding the way I wanted to have it... and to show it as I wanted to show it,' Zeta-Jones had told the court. But (they said) it was absurd, hypocritical and ridiculous of her to invite 350 guests to a wedding, sell the photo rights for a million bucks, and then expect to be able to escape the public interest; an interest which could only be satisfied by some grainy snaps captured on a small camera fixed to the groin of Jeremy Thorpe's paparazzo son, Rupert. Even the judge seemed to agree with the termagants. Zeta-Jones's agreement with OK! was that she and Michael Douglas would be able to choose and physically alter the photos and captions that would appear in the magazine. 'This is what happened in Stalin's day,' remarked Mr Justice Lindsay, perhaps suggesting that there was a slippery slope here, leading from doctored wedding pictures to the eventual murder by Zeta-Jones and Douglas of most of their guests. Hello!'s QC ridiculed Zeta-Jones's objection to the quality of the pirated pictures, and especially to a rather unglamorous one showing her being fed cake by her new husband. 'So it's all about the exact position of a fork, is it?' he asked, sarcastically. Silly bloody question. I've never been married but even I know it's always about the exact position of a fork. Women go to extraordinary lengths to get the right pictures of their 'special day' - every wedding photographer and videographer understands that. Brides' magazines offer countless tips like these (to be read in a suitably cheesy voice): 'Does the photographer capture the wedding day the way the bride and groom want? Will they create unique and emotional memories that you will cherish the rest of your life? Do they look like someone you want to have mingling with your guests?' Or do they look like Rupert Thorpe and walk as though they have a digital in their Bruno Banani mini-briefs? Zeta-Jones's problem is not that she thinks that she's different, but that she's the same as everyone else, including, one suspects, the battleaxes themselves. She believes that her image has been stolen from her, a bit like those fabled New Guinea tribes who thought that photographers were trying to steal their souls. Which, of course, they were. So much for control. What about privacy? According to Mr Justice Lindsay, a wedding cannot, by its nature, be said to be private, not least because of the famous bit in which anyone is invited to come forward and object. A marriage, he told the court, was a private arrangement made public. This is, at one level, an extraordinary thing to say. People don't actually expect members of the public to pitch up at their weddings on the off-chance that there may be a dramatic last-ditch objection to the match. When the ushers ask: 'Bride or groom?', it is not considered good form to reply: 'Neither, I was just passing by and fancied a good wedding.' Anyway, Zeta-Jones's lawyers believe that, as of last month, they have a powerful precedent on their side in the shape of the Case of Dennis Peck, the Brentwood (not quite) Suicide. In August 1995, Mr Peck, in a state of severe depression, decided to kill himself with a kitchen knife. He was spotted with it in Brentwood High Street by a CCTV camera and police intervened and disarmed him. He was never charged with any offence. However, as a result of newspaper and television coverage, Mr Peck's image was widely seen and he was recognised. A few weeks ago, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Mr Peck's right to privacy had been violated in breach of Article Eight of the Human Rights Convention. The image of him with a knife had, the court ruled, 'been seen to an extent which far exceeded any exposure to a passer-by, and surpassing that which the applicant could possibly have foreseen'. This ruling is hard to reconcile with the judge's cheery thoughts on the public nature of weddings. But Mr Peck was not a film star. Had he been, then perhaps he could have 'foreseen' the level of intrusion. At which point, it is worth reminding ourselves of the lengths that the Douglases went to to keep out snapping interlopers, including 'full sweeps' for any surreptitious sound and video equipment, gold entry pins and body searches. Did they, after that, have less right to privacy than a public suicide? Zeta-Jones's interest in 'controlling' her wedding and establishing a level of privacy that suited her is clear to me. She must have been subconsciously aware from the moment that marriage to Douglas was mooted that there would be powerful psychological forces trying to pull them apart. He is, after all, a recovered 'sex addict'. It is hard not to see Hello! magazine's role as being that of the uninvited fairy, Maleficent, at Sleeping Beauty's christening. My friend, the psychoanalyst, says that, for him, the most interesting character in a Hello! photoshoot is always the sofa. This is where the couple sits, but how close? How firm? How soft? How low? Something is being said here that goes far beyond the smiles and grovelling texts. But what about us? Our urge, says my friend, is to split the celebrity couples up, just as children constantly seek to drive wedges between their parents and to subvert the solidarity of their relationships. A cursory flick through last week's OK! and Hello! magazines seems to bear him out. There is Zo\u00eb Ball, who may have broken up with Norman Cook, captured holidaying moodily in the Seychelles with her brother. There are Jude Law and Sadie Frost unsmilingly toting children around London. Then there is a 'rumour' about Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston, involving scowls, dresses and dandruff. The most satisfying three words in the English language are: 'It'll never last.' I understand the power of these words, even though I have little or no interest in celebrity. Celebrity is not the 'new religion' in a godless age, but is just a way of telling stories to each other, as human beings always have. And, as ever, we prefer stories in which the characters are exaggerated, and on to whom we can project our own concerns and failures. But it's like money - it only works if others accept celebrity discussion as conversation currency. I'm not interested partly because the characters of celebrities are just not complex enough (actors, for example, are just people who speak other people's words) and partly because the medium is journalistic, sensational and therefore I don't really trust it. For emotional involvement, give me the Brian Aldridge saga any day, a saga that didn't involve real people, real lies and real misery, and about which the harridans had nothing to say.",
  "title": "David Aaronovitch: I don't keep up with the Zeta-Joneses",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "David Aaronvitch: Celebrities aren't different from us. Their problem is they are exactly like us, even down to the wedding snaps.",
  "id": "media/2003/feb/16/privacy.comment",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}