{
  "content": "Twitter has celebrated reaching 100 million global active users with a flurry of fresh statistics, from which we learn that the service averages 230m tweets a day and that half the active user base accesses Twitter daily. Statistics are a rare thing for the commitment-shy Twitter, which now assures us that these figures include Twitter.com, Twitter's official apps and third-party apps themselves. Twitter's website alone records 400 million monthly unique browsers, up 70% from the start of 2011, while 55% of active users are on mobile. In contrast with Facebook, growth is increasing this year compared with last, Twitter claims, with a further 26 million users likely to join by January. That's more than 2006-09 combined. Why is Twitter ready to share impressive growth with us? Because it also wants to prove that its advertising systems can exploit that audience and start making some real money on the eyewatering $760m invested so far. As far as the UK goes, Twitter has a core team of 20 staff including the Tweetdeck client it acquired in May and some sales and commercial partnership staff. But though that office has been open for at least three months, things have been rather quiet. So what's brewing? Take three ingredients... Photo by eldh on Flickr. Some rights reserved Advertisers' tools Twitter's chief executive Dick Costolo explained promoted tweets in more detail at a briefing that, unfortunately, UK journalists weren't invited to. He explained that users will see promoted tweets from companies they don't follow, which is a step further than its previous promoted tweets strategy. He added that Twitter is looking to share revenue from promoted tweets with third-party developers, noted VentureBeat. \"Right now, when you log in, you'll see accounts to follow or similar content in the right column,\" said Costolo. \"Promoted tweets will work the same way. It will be based on the interest graph of the accounts you follow. So you should be seeing the kind of content you're already interested in.\" Advertisers A trickle of rather vague stories suggest excitement is brewing among UK advertisers ahead of a UK launch, though deals are far from confirmed. Promoted tweets, promoted trends and promoted accounts will reportedly be opened to UK advertisers then \u2013 a full 18 months after they first rolled out in the US. O2, Vodafone, Sony and Sky are all reported to have been approached. One agency contact tells us Twitter is being frustratingly cautious, but that it wants to get the service right. Partners Another project in the works is Twitter UK's partnership with the British Fashion Council to create a Twitter \"experience\" for London Fashion Week, which starts on 16 September. Twitter has reached something of a critical mass with this particular audience, Twitter's UK spokeswoman Rachel Bremer said today, but she added that the big news stories this year have added to public awareness about the service. Twitter worked with the London 2012 Olympics and is working with other companies behind the scenes on these kind of partnerships; in the case of London Fashion Week this adds Twitter to the LFW home page, offers readers extensive curated lists of designers, brands, press and sponsors and shares images from backstage. There's also a \"warm sign-up\", so new Twitter users who click through from the LFW site are offered suggested fashion-related accounts to follow. And so? We know how important the UK is to Twitter for both its high penetration of users and for the advanced e-commerce and online advertising market. It seems fitting that Twitter would take its time, as it has always done where commercial development is concerned, to get these services right. But given all this, it seems likely that London's big reveal will be a Facebook-esque event where advertisers, big content partners and third-party developers will combine to announce the potential of Twitter for the commercial world. If you're thinking there doesn't seem to have been much coverage of Twitter's UK operations, you might also suspect Twitter was keeping its powder dry for some time in October \u2013 presumably on a date that doesn't clash with the iPhone 5 launch. So we'll see if Twitter is able to keep some surprises back for then.",
  "title": "Twitter reveals it has 100m active users",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Service says it averages 230m tweets a day and its website has 400 million monthly browsers in flurry of fresh statistics. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "technology/pda/2011/sep/08/twitter-active-users",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}