{
  "content": "Much has been written about the effect of disruptive technologies in the media world. Advertising and communication being at the forefront of this so-called digital revolution. I use the word revolution with great caution. Revolution usually implies the destruction of one order, while being replaced by another. The Oxford English Dictionary defines it as: \"A forcible overthrow of a government or social order in favour of a new system.\" We bandy these words around with ever increasing alarm, and inaccuracy. So let's be provocative. Digital technology has not been a revolution. What it ushered in has been an amazing expansion of opportunity, opening up incredible ways of communicating with one's audience. Just as Gutenberg's invention of the printing press and movable type wasn't a revolution in publishing books. Far from it; books had existed for hundreds of years. Gutenberg's invention made them more accessible, opening them up to the general population in ways unheard of. What it did do is have a profound effect on the written word and the expansion of knowledge. In 1440 no one could have predicted its influence. And so, today, no one can predict the unfolding impact of today's disruptive digital technology. So how do we move forward in these uncertain times? The only answer to that constantly asked question is to embrace more creativity. There is only one certainty I'm prepared to stake my reputation on. Tomorrow will be more creative than today. Not that everyone in the world of communication will agree with that. There are those that believe rich data, or big data as some call it, will be the answer to all their problems. The idea that reducing us all to a set of algorithms will provide the answers commerce needs, is of course laughable. But there will always be fools that somehow believe this nonsense. It is important to understand that technology creates opportunity, but it's creativity that creates value. Over the past decade, we've been told by the digerati that television was dead and online is the future. What we weren't told by these oracles of wisdom is exactly what people were engaging with online. They were actually engaging with the broadcast world, spreading its fame and influence. Broadcast deployed greater creativity, creating programmes and series that captivated their audiences. Breaking Bad is all you have to say here. The online world became the tools of these masters, spreading their fame to an ever growing audience. More than ever the power of captivating storytelling became the weapon of choice for those wishing to become culturally and commercially important. In the world of advertising it became obvious. Brands such as John Lewis, with its Christmas spectacular, were providing a template for how creativity could propel a brand into the limelight by the imaginative use of broadcast, while using an online audience to further their message. A classic case of persuasion and promotion, the two driving forces of an effective brand building campaign. BBH's campaign for Yeo Valley proved this beyond doubt. With a limited budget and outstanding creativity, a brand could dominate the broadcast media and spread its fame with online engagement that outsmarted conventional media thinking. Broadcast wasn't dead. It was not only alive, it was thriving. But it had to be embraced with creativity. Engaging its audience with daring and wit. Is that a revolution? I suppose for some in the communication industry it is. But I don't think they'll be around much longer. Sir John Hegarty is founder of BBH and The Garage Soho. He will be speaking at this year's Guardian Changing Media Summit. To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media &amp; Tech Network membership. All Guardian Media &amp; Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \"Paid for by\" \u2013 find out more here.",
  "title": "Sir John Hegarty: 'Tomorrow will be more creative \u2013 I'd stake my reputation on it'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "media/changing-media-summit",
    "media/advertising",
    "media/media",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "technology/big-data",
    "technology/technology",
    "tv-and-radio/breaking-bad",
    "technology/television",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Ignore the digital hype \u2013 technology may create opportunity, but more than algorithms and big data, creativity will create what we truly value",
  "id": "media-network/2016/mar/11/sir-john-hegarty-future-more-creative-technology-not-big-data-algorithm",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}