{
  "content": "What is the press complaints commission? The PCC is an independent watchdog that was set up in 1991 to ensure that British newspapers and magazines follow an ethical code of practice. The code deals with issues such as inaccuracy, privacy, misrepresentation and harassment. The commission resolves complaints about possible breaches of the code and gives general guidance to editors on related ethical issues. Why is it in the news? Its chairman, Lord Wakeham, called for continued restraint in the coverage of Prince William after he leaves Eton on Wednesday. He set out new guidelines for editors telling them they should allow the 18-year-old prince the same sort of privacy given to any other public figure. Have there been previous rulings or guidelines? Yes. The code of practice protected Prince William's privacy from the full glare of the media spotlight as a minor at school, in the same way as it does for any child. However, Buckingham Palace accepted that there was a legitimate public interest in William as second in line to the throne. A deal was done whereby the palace promised to make photographs and information about the teenage prince available at milestones during his childhood in return for media cooperation. Did it work? And why is Lord Wakeham calling for restraint now? On the whole, the deal was regarded to have been a success, but now that William has reached the age of 18 and is leaving school, he is no longer protected by the code's guideline. In a speech delivered in Fleet Street this morning, Lord Wakeham said that endless intrusion into the prince's privacy would make his life a misery and did not want to see endless intrusion into the prince's life, but accepted that there would be reports and speculation about it, although newspapers should continue to exercise restraint. He also called for continued cooperation between papers and St James's Palace as the prince enters adulthood. So, as the prince hopes to take a year out from full-time education before university, does he now become \"fair game\"? Absolutely not, says Lord Wakeham: \"He has left school, he is growing up and has become a young adult; he is increasingly becoming a public figure - and the way the press covers him will reflect that\u0085 That is likely to mean that newspaper readers are going to be seeing somewhat more of him in the future.\" But there should be no snatched pictures of William in a private place or place where there was a reasonable expectation of privacy, including private gardens and restaurants, he added. What happens if newspapers ignore this call for restraint? Lord Wakeham says the PCC will come down hard on the publication of any picture of Prince William that has been obtained through intimidation or persistent pursuit, just as it would for any other individual. If a paper breaches the code and the PCC upholds a complaint, then the publication must publish the PCC's adjudication in full and \"with due prominence\". Where can I find out more? Press Complaints Commission PCC code of practice Society of Editors Official royal website The future of the monarchy: special report Books on BOL.com Sex, Lies and Democracy by Michael Bromley Ethical Issues in Journalism and Media by Andrew Belsey Regulating the Press by Clive Soley Regulating the Media by Thomas Gibbons",
  "title": "Press regulation",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "uk/uk",
    "uk/prince-william",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "As the newspaper watchdog, Lord Wakeham, calls for continued restraint in coverage of Prince William after he leaves school, we explain how the press is supervised.",
  "id": "world/2000/jun/28/qanda.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}