{
  "content": "Everybody has something they regard as being nobody's business but their own - from the mundane (their unlisted home telephone number perhaps) to the serious (such as treatment for a hereditary illness). Increasingly, however, our freedom to define a private space for ourselves is being restricted. The government and its agencies, while keen to keep their own secrets, are less willing to allow us ours, handing themselves new powers that let them steadily map our private lives. Just as chilling is how much is known about us by corporations which are busy compiling extraordinarily detailed databases of our everyday transactions. The Guardian is launching an unprecedented three-part series uncovering the extent to which our daily lives are watched, recorded and analysed by others. Part one, on September 7, will examine the challenges to privacy in the areas of our lives, from our television viewing habits to our credit details and our medical records. Part two, on September 14, will examine the state's growing surveillance power in the wake of September 11 and in the light of developing new technology. In an exclusive article, David Blunkett, the home secretary and architect of this new regime, argues that the government is successfully balancing the competing goals of privacy and surveillance. And in the final issue, published on September 21, we dip our toes in the murky and burgeoning black market for illegally obtained personal information and reveal the astonishing techniques used to unlawfully mine and trade confidential data for profit. Exclusively on Guardian Unlimited you will also find extensive background material and additional reporting from our unrivalled team of journalists and commentators, plus a comprehensive directory of related internet links. And on Friday September 13 the Guardian's Richard Norton-Taylor will be live online on Guardian Unlimited to answer your questions about the issues raised in this unique journalistic project.",
  "title": "Is Big Brother watching you?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Everybody has something they regard as being nobody's business but their own - from the mundane (their unlisted home telephone number perhaps) to the serious (such as treatment for a hereditary illness).",
  "id": "uk/2002/aug/30/privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}