{
  "content": "It is well known that we are entering a world in which thousands of television channels will be constantly pitching for our attention. But have you wondered whether one of them might be run by you? Thanks to the dizzy pace of technological change and the freefall in the cost of storage, there are now dozens of companies such as YouTube, seesmic.com (interactive video chat) and magnify.net in the marketplace. One of the most interesting is a recent UK startup, worldtv.com - run by its co-founders from their homes without an office - which offers something I wouldn't have dreamed possible even five years ago. It is best explained in three stages. First, you can simply watch videos from 150 countries or create your own television channel in one of the easiest setup procedures I have come across. You can aggregate all your favourite videos from places such as YouTube, Metacafe, Yahoo etc, which can then be watched sequentially by anyone, anywhere, unless you make them private. That is the most popular use of the site, but the potential is augmented by the second stage. By clicking on a dashboard button, the webcam of your computer is activated - if it has one - so you can add your own original material to the channel. Although it didn't connect once or twice (due, it seems, to maintenance work being done as it is still in beta) it worked well most of the time. It was the third stage, however, that blew my mind. Worldtv recently linked up with qik.com, another impressive startup (from the US) that enables videos you are taking on your mobile to be watched live from a website or another mobile device. It is not unlike kyte.com, which I reviewed a year ago (tinyurl.com/3ggz29), but it also allows users to send videos to fashionable sites as Twitter or Facebook or to be archived in unlimited quantities on qik's servers. When linked to worldtv it means you can have a global TV channel on your mobile (though on most Nokia smartphones only at the moment) that can stream what you are taking live to your worldtv channel, interrupting the videos you have already set up to play. I made qik the default button on my Nokia N80 (now a couple of years old) so I could start broadcasting live to the world simply by pressing one button. I tried it at home using (free) Wi-Fi and it worked first time. As I was recording I witnessed it being broadcast live on the worldtv screen of my computer, including the sound of my voice a second or two later (just like on real TV). Later, I went to a local butterfly centre to film a dizzying array of butterflies - but very aware of charges for data transmission, as I was not on an all-you-can-eat tariff. What impressed me was not the result of my very amateurish efforts (my worldtv.com/shakespearesmonkeytv notched up 11 viewers around the world before I switched it to private) but that it was possible at all. There will be lots of rubbish on these sites, but as mobile cameras get better, and users more professional, some of the channels will become really professional: a laboratory for tomorrow's film and television producers. Amazing opportunities are opened as you could, in theory, film an entire archive of your life if you just leave your mobile on (until the battery runs out) or use it when you fear you may be attacked so the whole episode is filmed simultaneously online. But there are also serious privacy and copyright problems if you can broadcast to a live audience anything anywhere: a concert, a football match, a row on the street, strangers in a restaurant. Videoing celebrities could go ballistic. Maybe we won't need CCTV cameras any more as we will all have one. I am a camera. By the way, this won't cost you a penny if you use Wi-Fi or an unlimited data tariff. There are even plans to do a 50% revenue share with you when adverts are introduced. vic.keegan@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Victor Keegan: Soon we'll all have a CCTV in our pockets",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/digitalvideo",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "technology/wifi",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Victor Keegan: As mobile cameras get better, some of the channels will become really professional: a laboratory for tomorrow's film and television producers",
  "id": "technology/2008/apr/24/digitalvideo.mobilephones",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}