{
  "content": "A group of hackers has reportedly had some success in making Apple's Intel version of Mac OS X run on standard PCs, not just the one Apple is renting out as part of its software developers kit. This involves bypassing the TPM (Trusted Platform Module) chip on the motherboard, which is supposed to prevent such obvious acts of piracy. The hacked operating system has been distributed via BitTorrent, the peer-to-peer file-sharing systems, and instructions are available (\"only for educational purposes\") on the OSx86 website. And according to Wired News, it's impressively quick - a $300 PC beats a $3,000 PowerMac - though no one seems quite sure why. At first sight, this looks like bad news for Apple, which has always charged a premium price for its hardware. German computer science student Michael Steil, maintainer of the Xbox Linux and GameCube Linux Projects, told Wired News: \"Apple wants to avoid the word getting out that [MacIntels] are just PCs, and that [OSx86] works on PCs.\" But the story is far from over. Apple's development kit is a long way from being the final version of either the hardware (which will use different processors) or the software. Apple can still change things to make it harder to run OS X on standard PCs. It can also keep changing things with software updates, as it does with its iTunes music service. In addition, while the cracked version will certainly entertain hackers, geeks and some home users, it's unlikely to attract serious users. When business buyers choose a computer, they are also concerned about support, and the idea that their hardware and software will continue to be supported in the future. They don't want to end up with a system that is, for example, barred from downloading security fixes, can't easily be upgraded to the next version of the operating system, or can't be guaranteed to run expensive software such as Adobe Photoshop. Apple could, of course, take the view that Microsoft appeared to take when its primary focus was on building market share: that pirate versions are free advertising. However, that seems unlikely. Historically, Apple's strategy has been to maintain proprietary control of its systems, and to try to increase that control by competing with its own third-party supporters, such as software houses and computer dealers. In 1985, it declined Bill Gates' offer to help with licensing Mac OS to other hardware suppliers to try to make it an industry standard, and also moved to block people running Mac OS on much cheaper Atari ST and Commodore Amiga computers. Later, Apple quietly abandoned plans for the common hardware reference platform it had agreed with IBM and Motorola to challenge the Wintel duopoly. And although it did try licensing a few Mac \"cloners\", Steve Jobs quickly closed them down when returned to Apple. When Apple announced its plans for MacIntel systems, it said it would prevent Mac OS X from running on generic PC hardware. It's unlikely to give in without a fight.",
  "title": "Jack Schofield: Apple hack",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/cybercrime",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/software",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/intel"
  ],
  "lead": "Jack Schofield: A group of hackers has reportedly had some success in making Apple's Intel version of Mac OS X run on standard PCs, not just the one Apple is renting out as part of its software developers kit.",
  "id": "technology/2005/aug/18/internetcrime.security",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}