{
  "content": "Mamma mia! Google executives who don't live in Italy found guilty in Italy of not checking every single video that goes on to Google Video! The internet, or at least big chunks of the blogosphere, rises to its keyboard in a mixture of outrage and first-principle argument that of course Google can't check every video before it goes up. Personally I've calculated that this would take 3,600 people working a three-shift system; more as the volume of videos submitted rises. Google's only got 20,000 staff worldwide. It's not going to do that. But wait a minute. As with so many things that look simple on the internet, when you hold it up to the harsher, cold light of day instead of the computer screen, things aren't so simple. First, Google has protested that it took down the offensive video (of some boys bullying an autistic boy) within hours of being alerted to it by police. It was only up there for a few hours! Er, no. It was on the site for some months \u2013 during which time it garnered many comments saying it was offensive, shouldn't be there, and so on. Did anyone flag it to Google Video's moderators (who definitely don't number 3,600)? We don't know. As you have to be logged in to flag a video, but not to make a comment, many people clearly found it easier to do the latter, thinking it would do the job of the former. Not so. Next, the question of the Google executives and their non-Italian residency. Why were they in the dock? Because under Italian law they are the people responsible for running that part of the company. They are the ones who decide how it runs and whether it employs (or doesn't) 3,600 people to premoderate video, and what methods are available to consider removing videos that people judge offensive. If your method for doing that allows a video of bullying to remain on the site for months, then Italian law doesn't seem to like you very much, and you have to take your lumps. That, of course, is not the picture you would get from reading Google's blog about the topic or the executives' outraged comments. (Intriguing how people never say \"Ah, yeah, we did screw up. Damn it.\") Instead, do the thing the blogosphere does best \u2013 find an expert. An insightful \u2013 because legally informed \u2013 comment comes from Lilian Edwards, a professor of internet law at Sheffield University, who has been following the case since last May. She comments that, if we assume that Italy did correctly implement the European e-commerce directive, then the case hinges on the comments to the video, and how easy it was to bring the video to Google's notice. Should anyone be able to flag a video with just one click, even without registering? As Edwards points out, if it becomes really easy to complain, things get bad: \"Do we want to live in a world where anyone can censor any online content simply by claiming some kind of abuse of rights \u2013 privacy, libel, copyright \u2013 and demanding automatic take down?\" That would, she says, be \"bad news overall for the public interest in free speech and the public domain\". But I'm afraid we are already there. Since the judgment, I've had numerous emails from people complaining about how Google manages other aspects of its system. The most egregrious case seems to be that of Mark Kobayashi-Hillary, who filmed some people waiting for a Jimmy Carr gig, and popped the video up on YouTube (which is owned by Google). Someone from Carr's management registered a complaint and even though he was not shown performing (comedians hate that, because it lets others steal their jokes), it was deleted, along with every single other one Kobayashi-Hillary's 900-odd videos about all sorts of things. (He details it on his blog). \"You have backups, right?\" I asked him. \"No,\" he replied. \"This is the age of [storing everything in] the cloud \u2013 that was my backup!\" The real problem? Inconsistency. That, Google and YouTube, is what we need you to sort out. And that is what should really be annoying the blogosphere. Italian law is, we already know, a bit idiosyncratic. But Google? Even more so. Fix the beam in your eye, Google, before going on about the mote in Italy's. \u2022 This article was amended on 3 March 2010. The opening paragraphs of the original said that the video at issue in the Italian case was posted on (Google-owned) YouTube. This has been corrected.",
  "title": "Google and YouTube should put own houses in order | Charles Arthur",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/youtube",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "Italian court case highlights inconsistencies on sites. By Charles Arthur",
  "id": "media/2010/mar/01/google-youtube-charles-arthur",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}