{
  "content": "It could be described as a poke, but not a friendly one. For those who have not yet succumbed to Facebook, the latest craze on the internet, a 'poke' is an electronic greeting sent, for example, to an old friend from university. In the case of Mark Zuckerberg, who stands to make a fortune from the website if and when he sells it, the contact made by three of his former student colleagues represented an aggressive jab to the ribs. Facebook has been described as the most sophisticated and powerful socialising device on the internet, growing so rapidly - with 150,000 new members every day - that Rupert Murdoch, owner of the rival MySpace, is said to be worried. The fact that its millions of British users include not only David Miliband, Orlando Bloom and Tracey Emin but senior members of the media - such as Jonathan Dimbleby, Andrew Neil, Spectator editor Matthew d'Ancona, and even Murdoch's daughter Elisabeth - has helped guarantee its high profile. MySpace was bought by News Corporation in 2005 for $580m, now regarded as a bargain. Facebook is expected to sell for more than double that, turning Zuckerberg, its 23-year-old creator, into the latest dotcom millionaire and darling of Silicon Valley. But there is a glitch. This week, at a federal court in Boston, Zuckerberg will be accused of snatching the idea for Facebook from under the noses of three fellow students who believe its wealth and influence should be theirs. Cameron Winklevoss, his twin brother Tyler and their colleague, Divya Narendra, recruited Zuckerberg to their social networking site when they were all students at Harvard University. They now claim that he deliberately stalled its progress, stole the source code, design and business plan, then set up his own rival. Facebook sped away while their site, now called ConnectU, was still in the traps. 'It's sort of a land grab,' Tyler Winklevoss has said. 'You feel robbed. The kids down the hall are using it, and you're thinking, \"That's supposed to be us.\" We're not there because one greedy kid cut us out.' At the first court hearing on Wednesday they will ask a judge to shut down Facebook and transfer all its assets to them, plus damages. At stake is a large slice of pride, one of the most coveted prizes of the Web 2.0 goldrush and potentially millions, or even billions, of dollars. Last week Facebook signalled its ambitions by making its first acquisition, reportedly beating even Google to buy a web-based operating system called Parakey and fuelling bloggers' suspicions that Facebook could threaten the web's diversity by sucking the best of it into one place. Web 2.0 is the ambiguously defined revolution that has changed the way millions use the internet, as fast broadband connections enable them to upload their own content and share it with friends and millions of strangers. Facebook, a word barely known in Britain a year ago, refers to printed facebooks: the class directory at an American university containing photographs of each student along with their name, hometown and other personal details. It was one such facebook at Harvard that inspired the website that for millions seems to have become more addictive than YouTube or their own email inbox. Users enter their name, and details about their career, education and interests. They are provided with a home page, or 'profile', where they can store photographs and a 'wall' - an online message board. They can seek out friends and share content and are constantly updated with their friends' comments. Common interest groups can form around everything from people who share the same name to people who want Boris Johnson to be Mayor of London. You can even 'throw a [virtual] sheep' at someone you like. Such is internet humour. The Facebook story began when Zuckerberg, the son of a dentist from New York state, enrolled at Harvard in 2002 to study psychology and quickly gained a reputation as a wunderkind of the web. One of his first projects was Facemash, onto which he uploaded pictures of students from their ID cards, two per web page, and invited fellow students to vote which was the more attractive. More than 22,000 votes were recorded, but then Harvard blocked Zuckerberg's internet access after receiving complaints that the site was offensive. Harvard's administrative board summoned Zuckerberg to a disciplinary hearing but he escaped without punishment, later celebrating with a bottle of champagne. According to a profile in the New Yorker magazine, three older students at Harvard learned of Zuckerberg's prowess and invited him to write a computer code for a new site they were planning. The Winklevoss brothers and Narendra based their idea on existing social networking websites that allowed members to post personal details and link to other members. By late 2003 they had designed a prototype, known as HarvardConnection, and approached Zuckerberg to help them to complete it. Tyler Winklevoss told the New Yorker: 'We met Mark, and we talked to him and we thought, \"This guy seems like a winner\".' Zuckerberg began working on HarvardConnection in November 2003. But it was not his only assignment. Harvard had been planning to put its facebook online so students could learn more about each other. Zuckerberg decided to take on that task as well. With immaculate self-assurance, he said at the time: 'I think it's kind of silly that it would take the university a couple of years to get around to it. I can do it better than they can, and I can do it in a week.' Thefacebook.com went live on 4 February, 2004, and within 24 hours more than 1,200 students had registered. By the end of February, about three-quarters of undergraduates had created a profile, consisting of a picture and details such as the user's course, club memberships, favourite films and choice quotations. There was a search box to look up others' profiles and a 'poking' button to make contact - now one of the most famous features on Facebook. By the end of the month it had launched at Columbia, Yale and Stanford universities, again taking each campus by storm but maintaining an intimacy that many still regard as the secret of its success. With two colleagues Zuckerberg worked over the summer to build up a quarter of a million users. He decided to drop out of Harvard and moved to Palo Alto in Silicon Valley, met local venture capitalists and attracted millions of dollars of investment. Then a cloud appeared on the horizon. In September 2004 the Winklevoss brothers and Narendra filed allegations with a federal court that Zuckerberg stole their idea and worked to drag out their site's launch so that he could complete Facebook first. He was not paid to do the work, they said, but he was a full member of their team and would have reaped any future rewards. In total they made nine claims, including copyright infringement, misappropriation of trade secrets and breach of contract. That November, Facebook filed a countersuit, charging ConnectU with defamation. Zuckerberg has said ConnectU asked him to do about six hours of work, which he did, and any delays were due to him getting bogged down by his studies. He points out that he was not paid and did not sign a contract. But ConnectU's founders claim he agreed an 'oral contract', deliberately played for time and that an email trail supports their case. The messages, filed with the court, were reproduced in the New Yorker. On 4 December, in a message to Cameron Winklevoss, Zuckerberg allegedly wrote: 'Sorry I was unreachable tonight. I just got about three of your missed calls. I was working on a problem set.' Thirteen days later, he allegedly wrote again: 'Sorry I have not been reachable for the past few days. I've basically been in the lab the whole time working on a... problem set which I'm still not finished with.' Then, on 8 January, 2004, he allegedly wrote: 'I'm completely swamped with work this week. I have three programming projects and a final paper due by Monday, as well as a couple of problem sets due Friday.' On 14 January, the magazine reported, the Winklevoss brothers and Narendra met with Zuckerberg to discuss his apparent procrastinations. According to Tyler Winklevoss, Zuckerberg mentioned that he had been occupied with other projects but did not identify them, even though he had registered the domain name Thefacebook.com three days earlier. 'He didn't mention it at all,' Tyler Winklevoss said. 'He didn't say he was working on anything similar to our site. It just seems like the way he acted was very duplicitous.' ConnectU eventually launched in May 2004 and shares many of Facebook's features, such as profiles, messaging and groups. The sites are so similar that ConnectU began a service called Social Butterfly that allows Facebook users to upload their profiles straight to ConnectU in just one minute. But today ConnectU is only a fraction of the size of its rival. The site carries a message from its founders that reads: 'Over the course of development, we've had our ups and downs. We've cycled through several programmers, even one who stole our ideas to create a competing site, without informing us of his intentions. But we've been troupers. At first we were devastated and climbed into a bottle of Jack Daniel's for a bit, but eventually emerged with a bad headache and renewed optimism. We weren't going to lie down and get walked over like this. So we regrouped, reassessed, and the end result is ConnectU, albeit a couple of months late.' Zuckerberg has received half a dozen offers to buy out Facebook, including one from Yahoo! for nearly $1bn, all of which he has turned down. Earlier this year Business Week reported that Zuckerberg was looking for $2bn, a story he denied. Tyler Winklevoss denies that such figures make him envious. 'This asset is now incredibly valuable, and I'm not going to pretend that's not very exciting,' he has said. 'I don't want more than I deserve, but I want what I deserve.' Both ConnectU and Facebook declined to comment on the case last week. Zuckerberg is thought to be taking it seriously but has said: 'I don't really spend much time worrying about this. There is a lawsuit going on, but, like, we know that we didn't take anything from them. There is really good documentation of this: our code base versus theirs. At some point, that will come out in court, and they'll compare the two.' While the legal case rumbled on, Facebook, in an apparent attempt to take on MySpace, lifted restrictions on membership and allowed people to sign up using their work email addresses, thereby creating workplace networks similar to those that thrive on university campuses. It is this that has allowed Facebook to spread virally and grow exponentially, sweeping through industries such as the media as surely as it swept through Harvard. More than 30 million people have now decided to reveal something of themselves to Facebook. In the Web 2.0 era, where everyone is an author, each of them can claim a share of the story. But it is a judge sitting in a courthouse in Boston, Massachusetts, who will determine whether Mark Zuckerberg can claim exclusive ownership of its soul. The web at war Money Supermarket In 1999 Simon Nixon and Duncan Cameron co-founded what is now the biggest financial services price comparison site in the UK, with a 46 per cent market share. But the pair fell out and now only communicate through lawyers. Nixon controls 85 per cent of the company after paying \u00a3162m for his former partner's stake. With the company planning to float on the stock market, and analysts predicting a price tag of \u00a31bn, Nixon's buyout now looks remarkably astute. Cameron, meanwhile, has to be content with his two Ferraris and millions instead of billions. NetBenefit The company was threatened by a lawsuit the day before its \u00a37m flotation in June 1999. Larry Bloch, who helped found the company, which registers internet addresses for companies and other users, was claiming a share of the company. The threatened litigation was dismissed by the company's lawyers as having 'no basis'. The flotation went ahead as planned. Wikipedia Jimmy Wales is the recognised founder of Wikipedia, but Larry Sanger, an early contributor on the project, claims that he deserves the title of co-founder of the mammoth online encyclopaedia. Wales says Sanger was merely an employee of his and that if the logic continued 20 others could claim to be co-founders. While the dispute lingers on, Sanger has launched his own rival encyclopaedia site, Citizendium. Alan Power",
  "title": "Faceoff!",
  "lead": "Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is facing a US court over allegations he stole the idea for the site from three fellow Harvard students. By David Smith",
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "world/world",
    "technology/mark-zuckerberg",
    "education/harvard-university"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2007/jul/22/digitalmedia.facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}