{
  "content": "Hello! magazine has joined News International's boycott of paparazzi photographs of Kate Middleton, girlfriend of Prince William. The Spanish head office of the magazine, which has a reputation for sympathetic coverage of its celebrity subjects, has written to Ms Middleton's solicitors informing them that they will no longer use paparazzi photographs of her. The magazine informed solicitors Harbottle &amp; Lewis that it was aware of Ms Middleton's wish not to be constantly pursued by press photographers and that it would abide by that. \"Hello! can confirm that we will not publish paparazzi photographs of Kate Middleton in the future, and have informed her solicitors of that decision,\" the magazine said in a statement. \"We are always careful, in any case, in the choice of photographs and respectful of her privacy.\" Hello! joins News International, owner of the Sun, the News of the World, the Times and the Sunday Times, which this week publicly declared that it had banned paparazzi shots of Ms Middleton. The company said it would only use photographs of her taken by staff photographers or agencies that abide by the PCC code such as the Press Association. Other British newspapers have discussed the matter with the PCC, but all have stopped short of publicly supporting the News International ban. But most have been at pains to point out that the photographs accompanying the coverage of Ms Middleton's 25th birthday on Tuesday were not taken by paparazzi photographers. The campaign to stop photographers staking out Ms Middleton has worked, with paparazzi largely absent from outside her flat after News International made its edict. Spanish publisher Eduardo Sanchez Junco, Hello!'s owner, is known to feel strongly about media intrusion into the lives of celebrities. When a paparazzo took pictures of the late Princess Diana sunbathing topless in Spain, Mr Sanchez bought the photographs so he could return the negatives to her. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Hello! joins boycott of Kate Middleton paparazzi photos",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/duchess-of-cambridge"
  ],
  "lead": "8am: Hello! has joined News International's boycott of paparazzi photographs of Kate Middleton. By Stephen Brook.\n",
  "id": "media/2007/jan/12/pressandpublishing.themonarchy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}