{
  "content": "Opening an office isn't that much of a big deal, but such is the kudos of Twitter that the UK government has been rolling out its biggest guns to try and get the firm to base itself in London when it opens its European HQ next year. The Telegraph reported that Prime Minister David Cameron himself, along with London mayor Boris Johnson ad various ad execs, met Twitter executives at Number 10 on Thursday. Twitter's head of international strategy Katie Jacobs Stanton tweeted afterwards: \"Hugely impressed with PM Cameron @MayorOfLondon &amp; the @Number10gov teams. #OpenGov is going strong in the UK. #Gov20 conf in UK? @timoreilly.\" The decision for Twitter will be between the UK, with whatever benefits the Government will have tried to lay out, and Dublin - which, as we know, has some singular charms when it comes to enticing multinational companies to set up shop there - ie. the corporate tax rate. It's unlikely Twitter would break out of the mould that the rest of Silicon Valley has used when moving into Europe; that is, having the Irish corporate base for the tax returns, and a London office that is strategically required to appear smaller while still being a more active centre for the company's business. That is the most likely scenario. During the recent Guardian Tech trip to Dublin, it was suggested by one source we spoke to that Twitter had already decided to move there. When we asked for clarification, Twitter's spokesman replied by saying \"we haven't got any local offices in Europe yet... we'll be hiring some folks in Europe in 2011.\" Photo by futureatlas.com on Flickr. Some rights reserved Any appearance of being a little coy about the Dublin base will be down to that now tedious corporate sensitivity, in the current climate, about the risk of being seen in any way to be evading one's taxation responsibilities. Having that base in Ireland is entirely legal, of course, but the more delicate accounting 'possibilities' that allow tax to be cut to as low as 2.4% are ethically problematic, to say the least. The again, maybe Twitter will use its considerable influence and slightly less conventional style to break the mould. Maybe.",
  "title": "Twitter lining up London and Dublin bases for 2011?",
  "lead": "David Cameron has been working to secure London as the firm's European base, but will Twitter be able to look past Ireland's fiscal charms? By Jemima Kiss",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/pda/2010/dec/13/twitter-office-london-dublin",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}