{
  "content": "The \"anonymous\" social media app Whisper has been summoned to Capitol Hill to answer questions posed by the powerful chair of the Senate commerce committee. Jay Rockefeller said revelations in the Guardian about how Whisper tracks its users raise \"serious questions\" over privacy and demanded an explanation. The chairman's letter was delivered a week after the Guardian published three stories about Whisper's business practices. Here are 10 key questions Whisper should answer. 1. How did Whisper obtain the broad location of some users who opted out of geolocation services? The Guardian's reporting was based on a three-day visit to Whisper's Los Angeles headquarters to explore the possibility of working together on journalistic projects. This visit, which took place last month, was hosted by the editor-in-chief, Neetzan Zimmerman. Targeted location tracking was a key method Zimmerman's editorial team used to find and then vet users they believed to be newsworthy. Whisper could (and did) begin private \"chats\" with users and also inspected their activity history on the app. But the vetting process also involved looking up a user's movements to see if they matched the claims they were making in their posts. But there was a problem. How could they find the location of users who had opted out of geolocation services? Zimmerman told reporters the company had other means of ascertaining approximate locations of those who had asked not to be followed. But his editorial team didn't just claim this. They supplied the evidence. One document Zimmerman's team gave to the Guardian listed a number of users who Whisper had identified as potentially newsworthy. It was titled \"Potential Guardian Leads\". Others were shared via email. Several of the users Whisper identified for the Guardian, and encouraged the reporters to investigate, had opted out of their location services. Despite this, Whisper obtained their approximate location and supplied it to the Guardian. 2. Why do Whisper executives disagree about how the company tracks users? It turns out Whisper collects two kinds of location data. The first is GPS-based data, provided by users who opt into geolocation services. The second is IP data, which gives only the rough location of all users, including those have opted out of their geolocation services. When Zimmerman's editorial team do not have access to GPS-based data (because users have declared through the app they don't want their location tracked), they sometimes ascertain their rough location through IP addresses. Whisper initially said this disclosure was \"entirely false\" and had been concocted by reporters. \"When I specifically say that they are lying, that's what I mean \u2013 that does not happen, and it simply can't happen,\" Zimmerman told tech news website Gigaom. But Whisper's senior vice-president, Eric Yellin, had already acknowledged the practice. He told the Guardian before the stories were published: \"We occasionally look at user IP addresses internally to determine very approximate locations.\" That admission was made in an email exchange about the editorial practices of Zimmerman's team. So who is right? Zimmerman or Yellin? And why do they disagree? 3. How did Whisper 'vet' the users featured in Buzzfeed and Huffington Post articles? Whisper had established partnerships with Buzzfeed, the Huffington Post and Fusion, all of which have since suspended those partnerships. But these previous collaborations raise important questions about Whisper's vetting process. One Buzzfeed article featured Whisper messages about sexual assaults in the military. Whisper told Buzzfeed it had \"vetted every account using our back-end tools and filtered out any we thought might be bogus claims\". Of the 23 Whisper posts featured in the Buzzfeed article, five were from by users who had opted out of geolocation. So how did Whisper \"vet\" these users? The same can be asked of a Huffington Post article featuring Whisper users who claimed to be college students discussing virginity. Four out of seven of the Whisper postings came from users who had opted out of geolocation services. When the Guardian undertook three small journalistic projects with Whisper earlier this year, Zimmerman's editorial team did not indicate they were ascertaining the broad location of some users who had opted out of geolocation services. 4. Why does Whisper collect detailed GPS data from users if it doesn't need it? Jonathan Zdziarski, a security expert who specialises in forensic analysis of operating systems, has published a detailed assessment of Whisper's back-end system. He concluded: \"Anonymous users have good reason to be concerned about their anonymity when using the Whisper application.\" Among the concerns raised by Zdziarski, an expert in Apple systems, was the type of GPS data he said Whisper is requesting from Apple devices. According to Zdziarski, Whisper could ask Apple for GPS data that is accurate within a 1km or 3km radius. Instead, the app requests GPS data that is accurate to within a 100-meter radius and only \"fuzzes\" or \"salts\" that data, rendering it accurate to within 500meters, once it has arrived on the company's servers. The \"nearby\" facility on Whisper's app \u2013 the ostensible reason the company collects GPS data in the first place \u2013 only allows users to see messages posted within a one-mile radius. So why is Whisper collecting GPS data accurate to within a 100-metre radius? 5. Is Whisper now accepting it (passively) tracks users? Whisper initially responded to the Guardian's stories by insisting that it \"does not follow or track users\". But as Rockefeller notes in his letter, Heyward has since put it differently. Heyward now states Whisper does not \"actively\" track its users. Why the change in wording? Is he saying Whisper doesn't track users all the time, only when they are interesting or newsworthy? How does the company explain the difference? 6. Why does Whisper indefinitely store location data that is linked back to individual users? What many users of the app may not realise is that Whisper is indefinitely storing their information in a database that, in the case of most users, can be viewed through an in-house mapping tool. Whisper stores information linked to individual users. That's how, when Zimmerman's team spot a newsworthy user, they can scour their historical activity on the app and review past messages \u2013 including those a user may believe they have deleted. The precise time and general location of messages is recorded (for the 80% who opt into geolocation services), providing a trail of breadcrumbs that can be used to track a person's movements over time. Rockefeller has asked Whisper to explain the extent to which it \"retains user data\". The company states it is only holding user data for \"a brief period of time\". So why does it keep this data in a searchable database and store it indefinitely? 7. Why didn't Whisper tell users it was sharing information with the Pentagon? Whisper has been sharing information with the US Department of Defense to help with research into suicides. The study exploits the location data Whisper acquires by searching messages the company knows have been sent from US military bases. Heyward has defended the practice and said his company \"can't wait to establish more of these relationships\". But why did Whisper keep this project secret from its users in the first place? 8. Why didn't Whisper tell its users about its overseas base in the Philippines? Whisper has hired more than 100 staff in the Philippines to constantly monitor messages posted on its app to stamp out inappropriate behaviour. When the Guardian asked Whisper what security measures were in place at the company's Filipino site, the company provided no specific information but insisted the process was \"extremely secure\". At that time, as Rockefeller notes, Whisper was providing its users no indication their data was being held or processed overseas. In fact, the company's terms of service told users \"we process and store all information in the United States\". Four days after learning the Guardian planned to publish its stories, Whisper rewrote its terms of service. The new terms, introduced on 13 October, acknowledge user information is also stored in \"other countries\". \"This may be important to you, as the laws of the United States or such other countries may not be as protective of your personal information as the laws of your jurisdiction,\" the new policy states. Why were users not told this before? 9. Is Whisper claiming that none of the changes to its terms of service are related to the Guardian's reporting? Four days after learning the Guardian planned to publish details about Whisper's business practices, the company rewrote its terms of service. Rockefeller has demanded Whisper's current terms of service, as well as copies of the policies in effect at the launch of the company and at the time it introduced its geolocation feature. Heyward and his chief technology officer, Chad DePue, have said the changes to the terms of service were unrelated to the Guardian's reporting. Heyward said the changes were \"finalised\" in July and were due to be published in October. He added: \"However, our communications with the Guardian made it clear that our users would benefit from seeing them sooner.\" Heyward not mention that Whisper's terms of service were also updated in September. DePue has offered to make public his correspondence with Whisper's lawyers to prove the \"entire point\" of the changes to the terms of service was to make them more user-friendly. Is Whisper claiming that none of the changes were related to the Guardian's reporting? 10. Why did Whisper deny the existence of a user claiming to be a sex-obsessed lobbyist? When two reporters visited Whisper's headquarters last month, they had extensive discussions with executives at the company over three days. At no stage during the visit were the journalists told they could not report on the information shared with them by Whisper. Indeed, Whisper has since acknowledged the reporters were entitled to write about what they discovered. Columbia Journalism Review has written about the nature of the Guardian's reporting. While conversations during the visit were on the record, the Guardian felt it was fair to avoid naming any executives who were not specifically giving quotes for attribution. One such executive told the reporters about an apparently sex-obsessed Whisper user who claims to be a lobbyist in Washington DC. \"He's a guy that we'll track for the rest of his life and he'll have no idea we'll be watching him,\" the Whisper executive said. The quote was heard by two reporters, as their records of the conversation show. Zimmerman \u2013 who was not present when the executive made the remark \u2013 described the quote about the lobbyist as \"100% fabricated\". He added: \"It is a fabrication because it was never said, and no such person exists.\" That person does exist. Zimmerman's editorial team nicknamed the lobbyist '50 shades of grey' and believed him to be a potentially newsworthy find. They actively encouraged the Guardian reporters to delve into the lobbyist's history of activity on the app. The lobbyist was one of the users included in the \"Potential Guardian Leads\" document that Whisper provided the Guardian.",
  "title": "Ten privacy questions Whisper should answer for Senate committee",
  "lead": "Whisper executives have been summoned to Capitol Hill to answer questions about how the app tracks its users",
  "tags": [
    "us-news/us-senate",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/apps",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "us-news/2014/oct/23/10-questions-whisper-senate-hearing-privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}