{
  "content": "One of the things that annoyed Israel about the second Lebanon war was that it ended prematurely \u2013 without a clean Israeli victory against Hezbollah. The Jewish state considered that this, in part, was the result of a lily-livered international community balking at the sight of more than 1,000 civilian deaths \u2013 not to mention the devastation of Lebanese infrastructure \u2013 and deciding that enough was enough. Consequently, one of the recommendations of an Israeli committee investigating the war was that Israel set up an information/propaganda coordination body, to keep those pesky liberals on message even when bloody images of the victims of Israeli assaults were relayed across world media. Israel's war on Gaza was the first time we saw the \"hasbara\" directive in action. A body set up to spin (or \"explain\", if you like) the country's justifications for the war, it tightly coordinated key messages and worked on so many levels \u2013 mainstream media as well as diplomatic channels, friendship leagues, YouTube, Twitter and the blogosphere \u2013 that the effect was epidemic. It got world media repeating the Israeli government's core messages practically verbatim. Those messages boil down to, and I'm paraphrasing here: \"Hamas is a vile terrorist group; they started it, and you must support Israel's defensive war because we're civilised, just like you.\" For just one glimmer of the success rate, check how many of the US media talking heads collated by the Daily Show use the Israeli government's own analogy to explain the assaults on Gaza. Palestinians didn't stand a chance against such coordination. Media monitors chastised the disproportionate use of Israel spokespeople over Palestinian ones in coverage of the assault. Campaigners gloomily forwarded emails with the message: \"What we're up against.\" One email comprised a \"language guide\" issued by the Israel Project, advising supporters of how best to describe Hamas's \"Iran-backed war on Israel\". Another came from (or was forwarded by) an Israeli overseas mission, urging supporters to vote in a German newspaper's online poll on Gaza. The email warned that the longer the conflict continued, \"more people here will be overwhelmed with mercy for poor Hamasnikkim\". (For more on this, see here.) Indeed, that's a core discussion within the Israeli media: how long have we got before the world forces us to stop? Reports, especially in the first week, comprised interviews with Israeli correspondents in Europe and the US commenting on how well the media had swallowed the Israeli message. While Israeli PR is strong and strategic, Palestinian PR is hopeless. The rift between the Palestinian Authority (PA) in the West Bank and the Hamas government in Gaza means that there are no clear messages and no real capacity to counter Israeli officials. Mustafa Barghouti, an independent Palestinian MP and former information minister, holds this to be as a result of incompetence and a lack of political clarity. He says that Hamas don't know how to do media, while the PA \"did not behave as it should, as a representative of all the Palestinian people. Their messages were either absent, weak or delayed\". He laments the continued split between Fatah and Hamas. \"They don't realise that in such a moment of crisis when their people are being slaughtered, they have to rise above it.\" Palestinian commentators point to an obvious imbalance: Israel has barred foreign journalists from entering Gaza since the start of the war, effectively pulling the blinds over events within the strip. But Palestinian analyst Ghassan Khatib says there is another factor at play in the overall media skew. \"Even if the Palestinian side came up with proper messages, Hamas has been successfully labelled by Israel as a terrorist group and is portrayed in the western media in a manner similar to al-Qaida,\" he says. As a result, western audiences are more prepared to sympathise with Israel \u2013 because it fits the \"us or them\" binary to which post 9/11 ears are attuned. What all this shows us is how well Israel understands how western media works, how best to utilise its blind spots and prejudices. Israel clearly has the vision, the networking capacity and the resources to use world media to full effect. If I were the marketing manager of an ailing global product, I'd be taking notes. And we can only wonder what such talents could achieve if only the end goal were really peace, not war.",
  "title": "Rachel Shabi: Israel is a master of networking, shame it's promoting a war",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/gaza",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/youtube",
    "technology/internet",
    "world/israel",
    "world/palestinian-territories"
  ],
  "lead": "Rachel Shabi: Twitter, YouTube, blogs \u2013 Israel has proved a master of networking. Shame it's being used to promote a bloody conflict",
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/jan/10/gaza-israel-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}