{
  "content": "The Press Complaints Commission has upheld a complaint against the Scottish Sun for intruding into the grief of Sir Chris Hoy's family at a funeral. The paper published pictures of mourners at the funeral of Hoy's uncle despite the family having told the photographer that his presence was unwelcome. Mrs Rosemary MacLeod made the complaint to the PCC on behalf of the Hoy family about an article headlined \"Tears for Hoy uncle at funeral in Edinburgh\", which was published in November last year. It was a report about Hoy, the world champion cyclist, attending the funeral of his uncle, Derek Hoy, which was accompanied by photographs of the mourners, including Mr Hoy's widow, outside the church. The complainant said that the publication of the photograph of the widow had grossly intruded into her privacy. The photographer had been present in the church grounds during the service and had been asked several times by a family member to leave the family alone. He subsequently left the grounds and had taken photographs from the street. He had then been asked again to leave and did so. Mrs MacLeod was also concerned about references in the article to the eulogy, which demonstrated that a reporter had attended the service. The newspaper, which published the adjudication on Sunday (carried here online), apologised for the distress caused to the family. It said the funeral was newsworthy because of Sir Chris's attendance. It had sent a freelance reporter and a photographer to cover the occasion respectfully and at a distance. It said the photographer had left the church grounds after he was approached by a mourner. It agreed that the photographs had then been taken from the street. The newspaper offered to write a letter of apology to the family and removed the photograph from the online article as a means of trying to resolve the complaint. The commission ruled that the two approaches made by mourners regarding the photographer's presence were a clear indication that the family was unlikely to welcome the publication of the photographs. In light of this, the decision by the newspaper to publish the image of Sir Chris's aunt being comforted after the service \"represented a clear failure to handle publication sensitively\", in breach of clause 5 of the editors' code of practice. It said that the presence of a well-known individual at the funeral \"did not in any way lessen the newspaper's obligation under clause 5\", and ruled that the newspaper ought to have recognised that the family's wishes should be respected at such a difficult time. Charlotte Dewar, head of the PCC's complaints and pre-publication services, said: \"One of the aims of the code is to ensure that at times of great distress, family members are protected from unnecessary concern about press intrusion. \"While some families welcome coverage of funerals, for many others, such services are extremely private events, as was the case here. \"The commission's ruling reminds editors of the need to take account of this as part of their general obligation under clause 5 to handle the publication of such stories with sensitivity.\" Source: PCC",
  "title": "PCC upholds complaint against Sun over Hoy family funeral pictures",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pcc",
    "media/sun",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/scotland",
    "sport/chrishoy"
  ],
  "lead": "Commission rules that paper breached code by intruding into grief",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2013/apr/23/pcc-sun",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}