{
  "content": "Before becoming the chief apologist for Starbucks' microscopic UK tax bill, Kris Engskov was Bill Clinton's flunky. The coffee chain's UK boss was close enough to the former president to be twice called in front of a grand jury during the Monica Lewinsky scandal, and those grillings look like just the type of experience needed tomorrow, when the coffee chain attempts to justify itself in front of members of parliament probing the taxation of multinational businesses. It would have been useful, that is, before Engskov ducked the grilling and left Troy Alstead, the group's chief financial officer, to appear by himself (apparently, Google and Amazon are also sending one witness each). Alstead, of course, is in town after Starbucks got itself into a spot of bother last month when it emerged that it had paid just \u00a38.6m in corporation tax since launching here in 1998 \u2013 which looks rather mean as the company's last annual report states: \"our Canada, Japan, UK, and China [businesses] account for a significant portion of ... earnings\". Alstead will attempt to fool MPs by spinning that the firm has \"paid\" \u00a3160m in UK taxes over the past three years, even though the line looks weaker than one of its Americanos: \u00a387m of that was VAT, collected by Starbucks but, er, paid by its customers. Facebook's not making many friends Since its May flotation, Facebook shares have attracted less friends than Mark Zuckerberg did during his Harvard days. They have almost halved from their initial $38 float price as Wall Street has fretted over the punchy initial valuation, as well as concerns that even the founder's brain might not be large enough to figure out how to make money from the mobile site. Yet there may be even worse to come for investors this week, when Facebook staff will be allowed to sell a massive tranche of their shares as another key lock-up period ends. Most floats have periods that bar employees from flogging shares, but the frequency with which Facebook's sizeable lock-ups end has made life dicier than usual. Employees will also owe taxes on their stakes \u2013 which Facebook will borrow billions to pay on their behalf \u2013 and hardly eases the pressure on the shares.Employees will actually owe taxes on their stakes, whether they decide to sell them or not, which is likely to create a whole new reason to cash in. \"If there are substantial sales of shares of our common stock, the price of our ... stock could decline,\" the company said of the lock-ups in its flotation prospectus and, sure enough, the shares lost 3.7% last month when a (much smaller) batch came up for sale. Truly visionary. King in pole position? We know that Sainsbury's boss Justin King is brilliant, principally because he says so. \"[Sainsbury's] really struggled to cope without clear and inspirational leadership,\" he said earlier this year. \"It took 10 years, four chief executives and my arrival in 2004 ... to really start to turn the business around.\" But as the great retailer approaches nine years at the grocer, shareholders are starting to wonder when he might be inspired by his own slogan and try something new today. Rumours abound that King might be preparing to announce his departure next year, and perhaps check out in 2014 so he can leave after a glorious decade. Friends have even started telling trade papers that he fancies being the new Bernie Ecclestone (running Formula One, not riling the Jewish Chronicle), so attention is turning to engineering an heroic exit. Chances of that should be enhanced this week when King is expected to unveil an increase in first-half profits of around 4.4%, which should crown a decent 2012 in which the sponsorship of the Paralympics was a triumph. However, King's view of his own abilities slightly glosses over the fact that Sainsbury's shares have underperformed the FTSE 100 during his reign, as well as Tesco. Price match, as the grocers say, it is not.",
  "title": "Starbucks man faces a grand roasting",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/starbucks",
    "business/fooddrinks",
    "business/business",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/j-sainsbury",
    "business/supermarkets",
    "business/retail"
  ],
  "lead": "Business agenda: Coffee chain will attempt to explain why its UK tax bill is so small to members of parliament",
  "id": "business/2012/nov/11/starbucks-man-faces-a-roasting-business-agenda",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}