{
  "content": "The Mail on Sunday is fighting to publish a story involving the royal family, following what is believed to be the first injunction ever taken against a national newspaper by a former royal servant. The material, which was apparently due to appear in yesterday's paper, had to be withheld after the man obtained a court order on Saturday afternoon. The paper alleged that a senior royal had also written to it that day, demanding that the story should not appear. A royal spokeswoman yesterday refused to confirm or deny that claim and stressed the injunction had not come from a member of the royal family. She declined to comment further. A Mail on Sunday spokesman said yesterday: \"This case involves issues concerning the royal family about which the public have an unquestionable right to know. \"We are working with our lawyers on a number of important points and will be returning to the high court to get this injunction lifted. It is deeply disturbing that the courts are being used to suppress information and prevent proper public debate.\" According to its front-page story, the newspaper's proposed article was based on in-depth interviews with another former member of the royal staff, who had sworn an affidavit to support the story. But on Saturday morning, the Mail on Sunday was told it faced a possible injunction. Following a three-hour hearing at the high court in London, Mr Justice Mackinnon made an order preventing publication of any details of the story. On Friday, aides called newspaper editors to find out how they could be contacted at the weekend, an indication of tension within the royal household. Yesterday's developments come at the end of a fraught fortnight for the royal family. It is still recovering from the tabloid stories unleashed by Paul Burrell's book A Royal Duty, his account of life as a servant of Diana, Princess of Wales. The family's problems were compounded when Mark Bolland, the Prince of Wales's former deputy private secretary, told the Guardian the heir to the throne was indirectly responsible for Mr Burrell's revelations. Mr Bolland said Prince Charles should have done more to stop the butler's prosecution for alleged theft of Diana's possessions. Mr Burrell was acquitted when his Old Bailey trial collapsed. Yesterday the Sunday Mirror published an interview with the brother of former royal valet George Smith, which resurrected claims that the servant had found another staff member in bed with a senior member of the royal family. The story first surfaced during the police investigation into Mr Burrell, when it emerged the princess had taped an interview with Mr Smith, in which he apparently made the allegation and also claimed to have been raped by a palace servant. The tape has since disappeared. An inquiry last year by Sir Michael Peat, Prince Charles's secretary, concluded Mr Smith was an unreliable witness, but that his allegations of rape should have been investigated more thoroughly at the time.",
  "title": "Injunction halts newspaper story on royals",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/mailonsunday",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "The Mail on Sunday is fighting to publish a story involving the royal family, following what is believed to be the first injunction ever taken against a national newspaper by a former royal servant, write Tania Branigan  and Matt Wells",
  "id": "media/2003/nov/03/mailonsunday.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}