{
  "content": "MySpace is slashing 30% of its staff and closing offices as it attempts to recover lost momentum. The social networking site, which is owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, has been struggling in the face of Facebook's success: last week the Guardian reported that MySpace was considering the shut down of offices across America and Europe, as senior executives sought to regain the upper hand after traffic to the social networking site had slumped. As a result of such pressures, the company confirmed today that it will cut 420 jobs across its offices in the United States, in what newly-installed chief executive Owen Van Natta called a \"necessary\" manoeuvre. \"Simply put, our staffing levels were bloated and hindered our ability to be an efficient and nimble team-oriented company,\" said Van Natta in a statement. \"I understand that these changes are painful for many. They are also necessary for the long-term health and culture of MySpace. Our intent is to return to an environment of innovation that is centered on our user and our product.\" The company, which employs around 1,600 people worldwide, will be slimming down to around 1,000 employees in the United States in the hope that it can recover some of the buzz that helped it become the world's most popular social network in 2005 - leading to a surprise deal with Rupert Murdoch worth $580m. However the site's fortunes have slipped, as advertising revenues have fallen and the company's $900m ad deal with Google is due to come to a close. Two months ago Van Natta - the former chief operating officer of Facebook - was brought in to replace MySpace co-founder Chris DeWolfe in the company's top job. Tom Anderson, who also helped start the site, was removed from his job as president as part of a reshuffle orchestrated by the new head of News Corp's digital businesses, former AOL boss Jonathan Miller. \"MySpace grew too big considering the realities of today's marketplace,\" said Miller. \"I believe this restructuring will help MySpace operate much more effectively both structurally and financially moving forward. I am confident in MySpace's next phase under the leadership of Owen and his team.\" Today's announcement only covers jobs in the US, although the Guardian understands that offices in France, Italy and Spain are likely to close. A spokeswoman for MySpace said that the cuts only covered domestic US jobs, and that the company was not making any comment on international positions for the time being.",
  "title": "Struggling MySpace cuts 420 jobs",
  "lead": "Struggling social network is slashing its workforce in an attempt to become more 'efficient and nimble' in the face of competition from Facebook",
  "tags": [
    "technology/myspace",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/blog/2009/jun/16/myspace-job-cuts",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}