{
  "content": "T here's a \"deep principle\" here for a wounded Tiger. It's \"the right to some simple, human measure of privacy\". He thinks that \"personal sins should not require press releases and problems within a family shouldn't have to mean public confessions\". He is \"dismayed to realise the full extent of what tabloid scrutiny means\". And many readers, devotees of article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, may agree with him. It is a dilemma that, yet again, caught America's mainstream papers flat-footed last week. Wonderful golfer and sporting icon assaults fire hydrant at 2.15am. Wife breaks car windows with golf club. Police impose fines for not wearing seat belt and claim damages (in loco hydrant). But that's a very small story. Much smaller than Harriet Harman shunts parked auto. Why should anybody be much interested? Because obviously there's another story behind it. Can we be filled in, please? Here come the National Enquirer, the TMZ website and a slew of magazines and online operations answering that plea. Here come Jamiee, Kalika and Rachel to explain why wife Elin might have picked up that club. (Welcome to \"new-media world where the famous get screwed and the screwed get famous\", wails the Miami Herald). And here comes Tiger Woods, changing tack on original denials and admitting that he's \"not been true to his values\". There is a First Amendment, protecting those who dig for the truth behind those values (however distressing). There is also a $100m a year in wholesome sponsorship deals to be considered. Has Tiger always been saintly in matters of sexual propriety? The redoubtable Charles P Pierce re-posts the profile of the young, lubricious Tiger he wrote for Esquire 12 years ago. Jamiee, Kalika and Rachel have some pretty open modern approaches to talk about. Woods was flirting with disaster, protected by discreet silence on the golf circuit until he hit that damned hydrant. But did he ever put his family life directly in the scrutiny line? No: he was always buttoned up. I know what a variety of campaigners in Britain, not to mention Judge Eady, would say in this case \u2013 but the American way stands that on its head. There's a story here \u2013 golfer wrecks car \u2013 that, unchallenged, unexplained, means the public is in danger \"of being misled\" (one Press Complaints Commission code definition of the public interest). There's inevitable chatter over the private behaviour of a public figure who banks enough marketing money each year to make any banker green with envy. There's a familiar flood of net speculation that can't be suppressed: good when it's tweeting for justice, formidable when it's swamping Ofcom with protests about X Factor voting, inconvenient when it puts the full swill of gaping, speculating humanity into human interest. A force of nature, for good and ill. Simply a new fact of media life. One small accident, one large, unstoppable story \u2013 with a journalistic imperative that can't be shrugged piously away. I've started, so I must finish.",
  "title": "Wounded Tiger Woods thrown into the rough by a voracious media",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "sport/tigerwoods",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Secrecy and discretion about the golfer's life vanished when he hit that fire hydrant",
  "id": "media/2009/dec/06/tiger-woods-hydrant-privacy-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}