{
  "content": "Taras Young, digital content manager, Arts Marketing Association Develop your audience, and focus on them: One of the worst symptoms of this is a public-facing arts organisation, such as a theatre venue or gallery, tweeting about sector issues that aren't of interest to the people who matter \u2013 the audience. It's a great way to shed followers and never gain them in the first place. The starting point for tweets should always be what's relevant to your audience, which might not always be what your organisation views as important. That's not to say you can't turn the latter into something your audiences will enjoy and share; it just requires a bit of thought first. Finding time to tweet: If you feel you need to be on Twitter, but can't devote a lot of time to it, why not set aside 10 minutes at the end of the day to check and reply to any messages. So long as your followers don't expect you to reply immediately, I don't think this is necessarily a problem \u2013 you could make it clear in your Twitter biography section that the account is not constantly monitored. You can also schedule tweets. One free tool to do this is TweetDeck, now owned by Twitter, but be careful; I saw a famous military museum mess up a few years ago by scheduling a chirpy tweet about their new exhibition to go out at 11am \u2026 on Remembrance Day. Chris Shipman, content producer (social media and news), Royal Opera House Tweeting audience reviews and comments: I think that it's important to retain integrity when publishing comments, so we publish a representative sample of tweets, including constructive criticism. Personally, I switch off whenever I see anyone tweeting blanket praise and I'm willing to bet others do too. Arts audiences are a hugely intelligent and articulate bunch so it's great to be able to give them a platform via our official channels to showcase their views and hopefully add some value to our social platforms, Twitter included. Hashtags: For each show we have we have a hashtag (for example, #ROHswanlake or #ROHboheme) and we push content through this in the run up to get users used to seeing the tag. An area where we could do more is to promote hashtags internally (for example, on information screens around the building) and we're looking into doing this. Choosing the right tone: The person best placed to articulate the tone that's appropriate to your organisation or brand is you. You'll know best how it's appropriate to address your audience and how they expect to be addressed. I'd recommend speaking to members of your development and box office departments as they'll have had the most interaction with audiences and so will be able to help. I'd also recommend following a number of arts organisations in the same area as you (artistically and geographically) and seeing what their tone is like. Generally, I'd adopt a conversational tone, but one that doesn't go overboard. We've found that sticking a signature on each tweet \u2013 for example \"^C\" for tweets by me \u2013 work well as they re-enforce that the organisation does have a personality and a face. Tweeting images: I've seen some users using an image on Twitter for every post, but as a consequence I've found myself eyeing the unfollow button on more than one occasion. From experience, we've seen an uplift in traffic and RTs for posts that use an image but I wouldn't use them for every post you make. We've been using images for links where the external content is image-led, eg a more extensive production shot gallery. We've also experimented a bit with \"Watch\" or \"Video\" at the start of tweets but I can't help feeling that it feels like an automated tweet. Something for me to mull over further perhaps. S\u00eean-Estelle Petty, digital officer, Shakespeare's Globe Twitter as a marking tool: I think Twitter has a dual role in the marketing of a theatre. Firstly, it makes a theatre more personable, which I think helps to engender a sense of loyalty within the audience. If they feel invested in the theatre and they have the opportunity to see the same play in two different locations and can only afford one, they are more likely to go to the one they feel a connection with. Secondly, I think it can act as another channel for your message; some people may miss communications in other places. I also think people expect Twitter to provide them with information and exciting additional 'marketing' content, such as rehearsal photos and so on. Tim Powell, digital media manager, Historic Royal Palaces Using Twitter to sell tickets: As a general rule I'd suggest that you'll sell tickets if you do Twitter well, but you won't do Twitter well by only trying to sell tickets. It's an interesting conundrum actually; as you start to demonstrably shift tickets through social media, it's tempting to use this as justification for doing it. But this gives the wrong impression and you may well shoot yourself in the foot. Some types of content that really work for us are: \u2022 Behind-the-scenes content: what the visitor doesn't get to see, but really wants to \u2022 Exclusive access to places and people: Q&amp;As with Lucy Worsley is always a hit, for example \u2022 Live content: we recently did a live Twitter ghost tour of the Tower of London on Halloween; the response was phenomenal Katee Woods, marketing assistant, Spitalfields Music Listen to your Twitter followers: What are they talking about and how can you plug into their current interests? Because it's in real-time, Twitter can feel really fast, so you've got to join conversations as they're happening. One week you audience might be interested in \"What makes a good film score?\" but the next week, the ship has sailed and they're not interested at all. It's all about getting the timing right. Top Twitter don'ts from our panel Don't use automated services to create tweets from, for example, Facebook posts \u2013 they're fundamentally different platforms, and you should tailor your message for each one. Don't see Twitter as purely a promotional tool Don't forget who you're talking to \u2013 tweet for your audience, not for yourself. Don't tweet when you have nothing to say Don't tweet about the weather (unless your venue has closed down because of snow!) Don't retweet everything anyone says about you, once or twice is fine \u2013 on a similar note, don't retweet lots of tweets from one person; your followers will follow them by choice if they're interested in what they have to say. Don't talk at people, talk with people Don't mindlessly applaud productions or pieces \u2013 when Twitter is a trust-based network, it pays to be selective; when I say something is good, it means I think it's really worth taking note of Don't just talk about yourself \u2013 it should go without saying, really This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up free to become a member of the Culture Professionals Network.",
  "title": "Twitter tips and tricks for your arts organisation \u2013 advice from the experts",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "culture-professionals-network/culture-professionals-network",
    "culture-professionals-network/audiences",
    "culture-professionals-network/communications",
    "culture-professionals-network/digital",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "All the best comments and insights from our last live chat on Twitter use, abuse and best practice in the arts",
  "id": "culture-professionals-network/culture-professionals-blog/2013/nov/28/twitter-tips-tricks-arts-dos-donts",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}