{
  "content": "Where once it seemed true that all the world's lovers of \"long country walks\" would gather en masse in the dating classifieds, now our young and benevolent have Tinder. Where the path to true love is a profile picture screaming \"someone pass me an African baby, I need to look \u2013 like \u2013 sensitive and hot\"; see the Humanitarians of Tinder using photo opps in the developing world as the creepiest ticket yet to laidsville back home. But take comfort, you're not alone! When being judged on a single photo within a split second, some Tinderers have panicked into picking their least appealing self. Others have simply short-circuited (a picture of the back of your head? How non-conformist! But how common. How very much swipe to the left). And so, after a couple of hours at a kitchen table with two friends, I can conclude, as Propp theory and the structuralists led us to believe, there really are only seven kinds of stories ever to be told. Even on Tinder. Here are the photo cliches that are impossible to avoid: Waheeeey lads! Either chugging a beer, miming chugging a beer, or has a face obscured by beer. Tinder has an awful lot of \"does this drink make me look sexy?\" going on. And 99% of the time, the answer is no (saving that 1% in case Ryan Gosling really is on Tinder and sipping a whisky). Boozing with mates may well bring out the best in you; but shitfaced, eyes lolling and thumbs up, testosterone spilling from every pore? A sure-fire Tinder classic of the genre. Festival fun-timers A relative of the Waheeeey lads! but with the bonus of facepaint, feathers and multicoloured wayfarers. Festival fun-timers like to have fun, and there's nothing wrong with fun except it's now packaged from a generic production line where paying \u00a3150 a ticket to stand in a field, the Lumineers playing in the distance, has become Tinder's standard photo marker of, yes, \"I'm fun!\". NB: 136 swipes down the line, not fun. Cutesy moustache girl A comedy outbreak of fake facial hair has infected some of the prettiest girls on Tinder. You know, the big, curly moustaches on women with a killer pout. Is this a meme? When did it become a thing? Has everyone taken a seminar in What Would Zooey Deschanel Do? For projecting \"I'm chilled, no big deal, I look great even as the Village People\", this can work. No 'tache to hand? Use your hair. Or an index finger. Until the 33rd samey profile that is, at which point the only funny thing to do would be to grow an actual moustache. Wedding party people In theory, most people want to scrub up in their profile pics so points for effort here. It's not very imaginative, a third photo in your profile, perhaps, but safe and steady wins the swipes. Where this falls down is in the subcategories of two kinds of photos: posing with a much hotter female friend (see what he did there?), or \u2013 brace yourselves \u2013 with his actual bride (no idea what he's doing here). Ridiculously common enough to become Tinder cliches, the pair of them. \"I exercise\" To be hench on Tinder means you must have your shirt off and abs/pecs/all the 'eps bulging in as sleazy a way as a selfie in a bathroom can muster. Which is a lot. There should be a whole subdivision of Tinder dedicated to all the men and women who have decided their body is the best thing about them and are just going to put it out there. By photo cliche default, Tinder's disproportionately high numbers of snowboarders and horse riders are included here too. Safety in numbers There is a major commitment in belief of the Cheerleader Effect for a high percentage of Tinder. You know, the notion that a group of people assembled a la cheerleaders in a line will make everyone look more attractive. Except when you're posing, close-up, with other good-looking friends, on a dating app designed to sell you. Nobody wants to have to work out which person they're supposed to be mindlessly judging, because three photos into a group-heavy profile, everyone's disappointed. \"I travel\" Because there is no point in being snapped outside the Taj Mahal if at some point in your life it doesn't result in awkward messaging on an app that will help you find The One. Saw a beautiful sunset? Did you go on safari or climb a mountain? Cool! Now that money shot of you, with your sensitive \"but, I travel\" face, against some Lonely Planet fantasy is the ultimate Tinder photo cliche. Sorry. (Please note: this also includes the disturbingly high percentage of people who have been photographed next to a sedated jungle cat.)",
  "title": "Tinder has reduced romance to seven shades of cliche | Nosheen Iqbal",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/dating",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "technology/tinder"
  ],
  "lead": "Nosheen Iqbal: Your profile pic may be hot or not, but you won't escape the withering swipe of instant judgment",
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/feb/28/tinder-romance-cliches-profile-pics",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}