{
  "content": "Your report (Patient records to be sold from NHS database, 20 January) is yet another example of the betrayal by this government of the values of the NHS. Andrew Lansley said there would be \"No decision about me without me\" when the health and social care bill was going through parliament, yet the leaflet assumes consent for patient records to be uploaded unless one writes to one's GP to object to this. The government's record with regard to keeping information confidential is not good and the previous attempt to put all records online so as to improve patient care failed lamentably. It would be much cheaper for patients to ask their GP to email them the relevant information about their history and treatment which could then be downloaded on to a memory stick and kept in one's wallet, handbag or on a keyring, so the information is available in the case of an emergency admission to hospital. The leaflet describes the benefits to research and the possibility of planning services better, but the removal of strategic health authorities that used to plan services regionally, and the general administrative chaos and lack of clear lines of responsibility in the new system, cannot be remedied by collecting masses of data from individual GP records. Ramesh Randeep is quite correct in his analysis of the situation, which is all about the \"NHS being open for business\". Wendy Savage President, Keep Our NHS Public \u2022 Your article had some omissions. No information can be released unless an independent advisory group that advises the Health and Social Care Information Centre (HSCIC) agrees that the release of it would directly benefit patient care. Once it is established that this is the case, and the example of insurance companies wanting to calculate premiums would clearly not meet this criterion, a contract is signed. Breaking it would mean fines or criminal sanctions from the Information Commissioner's Office if any identifiable information was either leaked or used by the company. Patients and their carers should know that no data will be made available for the purposes of selling or administering any kind of insurance, as this would break these strict rules. The data will be issued on a cost recovery basis and not \"sold\". Your readers should be reassured to know that the HSCIC board last week agreed that a report detailing who we give data to and the grounds on which it has been released, will be made public on the website every quarter. We are committed to the public understanding what is being done with their information as well as to people realising they have a right to object, if they feel uncomfortable with the process. I hope your article helps encourage an intelligent, grown-up debate about this significant change that could have a tremendous positive impact on both medical research and health service planning. Kingsley Manning Chair, HSCIC \u2022 Alice Bell (No debate on this data, 20 January) leaves out the key critical website. The Big Opt Out campaigners have since 1996 fought to protect the confidentiality of medical records against successive governments' plans to put every NHS patient's medical record in a central data bank \u2013 without either the patients' knowledge or consent. The highly successful campaign website has both information and advice how not to have one's medical record automatically included. There are medical matters many might wish to keep confidential, such as mental health, abortion, cancer etc which might affect their employment or insurability. Far from there being no debate, the Big Opt Out, together with strong pressure coming from the medical profession, was successful. We are told we can opt out but of what of is unclear. The argument our GP, dentist or hospital can share our computerised medical records to improve patient care sounds reasonable. But little is being said about the fact that the central data bank is designed purely as a resource to sell to researchers. It will make no direct contribution to patient care. So patients get nothing in return for the government pretty much appropriating our data. Nor do we get any say in what kind of research projects are to be given access to our data. We are to be reassured they will have an ethics advisory body but all the legislation specifies is that they must be qualified researchers. Again, although the legislation trumpets the anonymised and pseudo-anonymised data, this reassurance is spoilt by that section in the legislation which says researchers can under certain conditions have access to our personal identities. There is still time to checkout the Big Opt Out site and decide whether you want to stay in or opt out. Hilary Rose London \u2022 Your article highlights the use of our personal medical information for research purposes, with the NHS number as a key \"patient identifier\" to link different NHS sources to the same patient. Currently, HIV services are almost alone in not always using the NHS number because of the additional confidentiality concerns for a stigmatised condition. But that means people with HIV lose out on the significant benefits for research into how well the NHS across its different services is meeting their needs. HIV clinics need to use the NHS number consistently if we are to identify effectively any areas where NHS treatment and care can be improved. But individuals with HIV should also have a right to opt out of such data collection for research purposes if they are unhappy about it. The right to opt out of such research use of one's data is not always enshrined in law \u2013 it needs to be, urgently. Yusef Azad National Aids Trust \u2022 The Department of Health's glossy leaflet sets great store by the assertion that data will not contain information which will identify patients but, in its concluding paragraphs, it states that patients who do not want information that identifies them to be shared outside their practice should [opt out]. So is it saying that the data be unidentifiable \u2013 or not? The DoH will de facto get its way because most people will not be bothered even to read the leaflet. Those who do and decide to opt out will put a further strain on hard-pressed GP practices through the increased bureaucracy involved. Brian Saperia London",
  "title": "Lack of debate on the sale of patient information | @guardianletters",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "society/nhs",
    "society/health",
    "politics/andrewlansley",
    "politics/politics",
    "news/information-commissioner",
    "society/aids-and-hiv",
    "technology/data-protection"
  ],
  "lead": " A previous attempt to put all records online so as to improve patient care failed lamentably",
  "id": "society/2014/jan/22/debate-sale-patient-information",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}