{
  "content": "Marketing and advertising has been struggling to keep pace with culture for years. The advent of real-time marketing \u2013 or 'right-time' marketing as it has most recently been referred to \u2013 seemed to many marketers to provide the solution to this problem. From Nissan's 7 minute royal baby ad, to Made.com's somewhat botched attempt to capitalise on the outcome of the #indyref, to Samsung's recent lampooning of the Apple's iPhone 6 announcement, many brands are dipping their toes into real-time marketing. The trouble with a lot of real-time advertising is it does nothing for the primary function of a brand: to differentiate a company from its competitors. Havas Media Lab research showed recently most consumers wouldn't care if four out of five brands disappeared over night, and felt only one in five brands were actually positively contributing to their lives. Real-time marketing means different things to different people \u2013 ranging from triggered communications set in action by consumer behaviour, to reacting as quickly as possible to (breaking) news. Here we take a look at five examples of the latter, and the lessons that can be learned from each. Use real-time marketing to differentiate your brand I can't help but think that Nissan's reaction to the royal baby could have been a bit more imaginative. But looking at this ad, you could be forgiven for thinking Nissan wants to let everyone know that its Xtrail has more seats than most families need, including Kate and Will's soon-to-be-extended one. That this communication lacks differentiation is exacerbated when you realise that this was not a rush response to a high profile news event, but the ad was actually created in July, when rumours of a royal baby started circulating. Add value to your customers and your brand Furniture store made.com's attempt to newsjack the #indyref result also highlights the dangers of real-time. Instead of sending out the correct real-time reaction to the result of the referendum, made.com made the unfortunate mistake of having two messages ready to go and sending out the wrong one, telling customers they had \"launched in a new country\". Of course made.com followed this up by sending out an additional communication apologising to customers and offering some money off. What's interesting here is we get to see the creative for both outcomes. Unfortunately neither seems to add much value to the brand \u2013 the messages can be summed up with \"Something happened. Here's a discount on our furniture.\" Think about the long term value The most recent real-time marketing effort of note is by KitKat, in response to the iPhone 6 #bendgate scandal. When viewed in isolation, this is a good (and somewhat entertaining) social media piece that has a kind of schadenfreude magnetism to it. However, notably, the tone is quite a contrast to its usual polite, if somewhat banal, humour seen on KitKat's social media. Unless it is announcing a bold new direction for the KitKat brand one might question the long term value of this, as any new eyeballs gained will soon start looking elsewhere. If you can't be outstanding, at least be consistent Pizza Express joined in with the #Royalbaby hype with a somewhat cringeworthy tweet, which copped a lot of flack on Twitter. But, on closer inspection, it seems that it might be deliberate. Pizza Express certainly appears to have an awareness that it's attempt was a bit naff and it doesn't seem to be too fussed by it (see here). Scrolling back through its twitter stream you'll find a treasure trove of tweets along a similar vein. Admittedly it's not a bad strategy for a high street brand where differentiation is difficult; and at least it's consistent. Stick to your strategy and show off your brand's personality and humour Samsung's efforts \u2013 a campaign to hijack Apple's iPhone 6 launch \u2013 fare the best of the bunch. The campaign shows personality and spirit and it's on strategy. The latest instalments of its \"It doesn't take a genius\" campaign take a few amusing jabs at Apple's pomposity with an irreverence that makes a refreshing foil to Apple's messiah-esque tone. Yes, there is danger in defining your brand tone as simply the opposition of your competition \u2013 but it's a strategy that's really working for Samsung. It has managed over the past few years to completely shift the conversation, from Apple versus Android versus Microsoft to simply Apple versus Samsung. So, perhaps marketers should focus more on getting the content of their message right, rather than simply getting it out there quickly \u2013 \"right time\" may indeed be a far more appropriate term than real-time, with an emphasis on the right content that adds long-term value to a brand. Peter Miller is creative director at Tangent Snowball Read more stories like this: \u2022 Five key takeaways from Social Media Week London 2014 \u2022 Brands experiment with Snapchat to reach and engage millennials To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled 'Advertisement feature'. Find out more here.",
  "title": "Five lessons learned from leading brands' real-time marketing efforts",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/business",
    "business/nissan",
    "business/automotive-industry",
    "technology/samsung",
    "technology/computing",
    "technology/apple"
  ],
  "lead": "From Pizza Express to Samsung, brands are busy executing real-time marketing campaigns. But are they getting them right?",
  "id": "media-network/media-network-blog/2014/oct/07/real-time-marketing-brands-pizza-express-samsung",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}