{
  "content": "The personal data of Europeans held in America by online tech corporations is not safe from US government snooping, the European court of justice has ruled, in a landmark verdict that hits Facebook, Google, Amazon and many others. The Luxembourg-based court declared the EU-US \"safe harbour\" rules regulating firms' retention of Europeans' data in the US to be invalid, throwing a spoke into trade relations that will also impact on current negotiations on a far-reaching transatlantic trade pact between Washington and Brussels. The ECJ, whose findings are binding on all EU member states, ruled on Tuesday that: \"The United States \u2026 scheme enables interference, by United States public authorities, with the fundamental rights of persons\u2026\" The verdict came as a direct result of Edward Snowden's revelations, published in the Guardian, of how the US National Security Agency was obtaining mass access to data held by the big internet servers and telecoms companies in the US. As a result, an Austrian lawyer, Maximilian Schrems, took Facebook to court in Ireland, arguing the social media site was violating his privacy by retaining his data in the US, including material he had himself deleted. The ruling will force the companies involved to rethink their operations and to relocate some of their operations, and also creates great legal uncertainty among the 4,400 European companies that use the safe harbour rules to transfer customers' data to the US. Snowden himself welcomed the judgment, sending out a stream of approving comments on his Twitter feed. \"Europe's high court just struck down a major law routinely abused for surveillance. We are all safer as a result,\" he declared. \"Congratulations, @MaxSchrems. You've changed the world for the better \u2026 Bottom line: the #SafeHarbor ruling indicates the indiscriminate interception of communications is a violation of rights. \"This judgment is a bombshell,\" said Monika Kuschewsky, a data privacy lawyer with the firm Covington. \"The EU's highest court has pulled the rug under the feet of thousands of companies that have been relying on safe harbour. All these companies are now forced to find an alternative mechanism for their data transfers to the US. And, this, basically overnight.\" AmCham EU, the US chamber of commerce in Europe, said the ruling could cost the EU 1.3% of gross domestic product and 6.7% in services exports losses. \"The judgment could have far-reaching repercussions for consumers, employers and employees,\" said Susan Danger, its managing director. The European commission, which is responsible for the safe harbour regime, put a brave face on the damning verdict. \"The commission is at ease with the court ruling,\" said Frans Timmermans, its vice-president. He made clear there would be no prompt halt to the transfer of data to the US, noting there were several other \"mechanisms\" that could be invoked to keep the electronic traffic flowing. \"Data flows can continue in the meantime under other arrangements.\" Safe harbour is an agreement between the European Union and the US that provides guidance for US firms on how to protect the personal data of EU citizens as required by the EU's directive on data protection. The commission has been attempting to renegotiate the rules with the Americans since late 2013 following the Edward Snowden revelations on the complicity between US hi-tech companies and government surveillance. Jan Philipp Albrecht, a German Green MEP specialising in data privacy, said: \"Safe harbour enabled masses of Europeans' personal data to be transferred by companies like Facebook to the United States over the past 15 years. With today's verdict it is clear that these transfers were in breach of the fundamental right to data protection \u2026 The United States has to deliver adequate, legally binding protection in the private sector as well as to introduce juridical redress for EU citizens with regards to their privacy rights in all sectors including national security.\" The court found that Facebook and other digital operators do not provide customers with protection from state surveillance. The ECJ ruling said: \"The safe harbour decision denies the national supervisory authorities their powers where a person calls into question whether the decision is compatible with the protection of the privacy and of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals.\" It suggested that the US \"does not afford an adequate level of protection of personal data\". \"This is a historic victory against indiscriminate snooping by intelligence agencies, both at home and abroad. In a globalised world, only a strong and binding international framework will ensure our citizens' personal data is secure,\" said Liberal Democrat MEP Catherine Bearder. Mike Weston, CEO of the data science consultancy Profusion, said: \"American companies are going to have to restructure how they manage, store and use data in Europe and this takes a lot of time and money. The biggest casualties will not be companies like Google and Facebook because they already have significant data centre infrastructure in countries like Ireland. It will be medium-sized, data-heavy tech companies that don't have the resources to react to this decision.\" Mark Thompson, privacy practice leader at KPMG, said: \"Europe [is] taking a strong stance in ensuring that European citizens are provided the same level of protection no matter where the processing of their personal information takes place. \"At the foundation of this is the need for global organisations to take privacy seriously, creating an environment which respects the rights of the individuals whose personal information they process regardless of the mechanism used to legitimise the transfer.\"",
  "title": "Facebook row: US data storage leaves users open to surveillance, court rules",
  "lead": "EU court ruling that privacy is being compromised could force many digital companies to relocate operations",
  "tags": [
    "world/surveillance",
    "us-news/nsa",
    "world/privacy",
    "law/european-court-of-justice",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "law/law",
    "world/world",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/eu",
    "world/europe-news"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "world/2015/oct/06/us-digital-data-storage-systems-enable-state-interference-eu-court-rules",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}