{
  "content": "In March 2009, frustrated designer Douglas Bowman left Google and used a very public blog post to rant about the company's over-reliance on data to inform its products. It was the decision to test user response to 41 shades of hypertext blue that did it for him; data paralyses the design process, he said. More than four years later, his tantalising insight into Google's lack of instinctive design still rings true \u2013 and nowhere is this more evident than in its social media product, Google Plus. There is a core audience of Google Plus users that evangelise about it. But there are also very many people who have explored Google Plus and found it lacking. The problem is what Bowman identified; a lack of instinctive human engagement. It's a beautifully engineered product, but with a heart of stone. It manages to be ever present superficially \u2013 someone else has joined your circles! \u2013 yet never meaningfully present. The redesign in May improved the feel of the site, but it still seems far from home turf for Google, an add-on that can only duplicate what the other social networks do better. In the frenzy about the value of big data, the companies that sit astride the largest and most lucrative of these data banks are understandably informed by the trends and behaviour of their users. But there are risks here, a blindness to a more instinctive human judgment that helps contextualise that data. It's a form of data-blindness, as if the absolute, inarguable power of the numbers defeats all else, like a top trump of business strategy. In truth, data can only ever be subjective, only as good as the methodology through which it is gathered and only given true meaning by the insight and analysis of the people who can interpret it meaningfully. Instinct is not some ethereal, new-age characteristic, but an invaluable and complex set of connections between experience, understanding and the ability to empathise with the user on the other side of the screen. There is no algorithm for that judgment, but when it comes to design and engaging human beings, it makes the difference between something engineered and something truly magical.",
  "title": "Google lacks instinct",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/google-plus",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "When it comes to design, Google Plus is missing that magic ingredient \u2013 empathy with its flesh-and-blood users. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "technology/2013/jun/17/google-plus-design-instinct-douglas-bowman",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}