{
  "content": "The government's information commissioner is planning a crackdown against more than 10,000 accountancy and legal firms it accuses of breaking the Data Protection Act. Firms will face fines of up to \u00a35,000 each after failing to notify the information commissioner's office (ICO) that they hold confidential information about clients on their computer systems. All companies holding such information are required by law to inform the ICO. The ICO estimates that more than half of the UK's 20,000 accounting firms have failed to register, as well as about 3,000 firms of solicitors. These are thought to consist almost entirely of smaller firms with 50 employees or less. In a test case earlier this year, the ICO took a legal firm to court for non-compliance with data protection laws. The firm was fined \u00a33,150 and ordered to pay \u00a33,500 towards the ICO's legal costs. The hope is that further legal actions will frighten lax firms into compliance, an ICO spokesman said yesterday. 'Failure to notify us once a year is an offence, but we'll try to make it as easy as possible for firms who are late in doing so,' the spokesman said. 'But if there is no notification at all, we will enforce the law.' Professional bodies, including the Institute of Chartered Accountants, yesterday criticised the ICO's plans complaining that they were 'aggressive', and that they had not been consulted. The low rate of compliance among solicitors and accountants contrasts with that of banks, almost all of which have fulfilled their legal obligations.",
  "title": "13,000 accountants and law firms 'break data law'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/business",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "The government's information commissioner is planning a crackdown against more than 10,000 accountancy and legal firms it accuses of breaking the Data Protection Act.",
  "id": "business/2005/jul/31/theobserver.observerbusiness",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}