{
  "content": "In the labyrinth of buildings squatting along Wapping Highway in east London, there live two fabled lawyers, Brett &amp; Crone. Between them, Brett &amp; Crone cater for all Rupert Murdoch's legal needs. Mess with any of his British newspapers and Brett &amp; Crone swing into resolute action. They are clever, resourceful and experienced. And just now they are very busy. Brett is in the high court today defending the Times against a libel charge brought by a Russian businessmen. A block away from Brett's office in Wapping, Crone is urgently drafting a defence for the Times's sister paper, the Sun, over a claim that its journalism infringed the Protection From Harassment Act 1997. Brett - Alastair Brett, to give him his full due - is asking judges to reward \"responsible\" newspapers by giving them more protection for journalism deemed to be in the public interest. Meanwhile Crone - Tom Crone , the legal manager of News International - is asking judges to give the Sun the licence to publish articles that even its lawyer admits were \"strident, aggressive and inflammatory.\" Brett and the Times are fighting a libel action against one Dr Grigori Loutchansky, who is suing the paper for linking him and his Nordex group of companies to organised crime - a link which he has consistently denied. Crone and the Sun are fighting Esther Thomas, a black 29-year-old former civilian clerk with the City of London Police, who recently won a landmark ruling in Lambeth county court. She can now pursue her claim that a series of articles about her - and about the complaints of racism she had made against three police colleagues - constituted harassment. Brett &amp; Crone will naturally adopt different arguments and tactics in each case. But in the deeper recesses of their erudite minds - the fathomless cranial cavities marked \"Without Prejudice\" - each doubtless recognises that the two cases are linked. They are not only linked to each other, they are linked to a whole barrage of other cases at various stages of assorted legal and regulatory slipways around London. \u0095 There is the case of Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta-Jones, in which the Hollywood celebrities have won the backing of a court of appeal judge for their argument that they have a right to privacy under the Human Rights Act. \u0095 There is the supermodel Naomi Campbell who is also threatening to use the Human Rights Act against the Mirror for taking long-lens pictures of her leaving a Narcotics Anonymous meeting in Fulham in February. \u0095 There is the newscaster Anna Ford, who is discussing with lawyers the possibility of going for judicial review of a press complaints com mission ruling that she had no right to privacy while on a Spanish beach with her partner and children. Not all these cases will come to court. Some clearly have more merit than others. But they all concern fundamental issues about the extent to which freedom of expression has to be balanced with other rights - the right to a reputation, the right to privacy, the right to be free from racial harassment, and so on. It is only fair to point out that worries about privacy are not the exclusive preserve of celebrities. Richard Desmond, the new owner of the Express, is very particular about his own press. And his battle with the Mail has demonstrated that Associated's chairman, Jonathan Rothermere, dislikes his own privacy being invaded. He is also currently in discussions with the Mail's official historian, Sally Taylor, over references to his late father's life in a forthcoming book. The reality is dawning on newspaper lawyers and editors that the courts are - with some degree of relish - about to embark on a process of establishing and developing a right to privacy, as enshrined within Article Eight of the European Convention on Human Rights. At the same time lawyers and editors are waking up to the realisation that - despite recent advances - the English libel laws still remain an unpredictable and awesome weapon in the hands of determined claimants. Paul Dacre at the Mail had an unpleasant shock last month when he was ordered to pay Alan Sugar \u00a3100,000 (plus costs estimated at well over \u00a3500,000) for the paper accusing him of being a miserly boss while in charge at Tottenham. Many lawyers had imagined that the days of enormous damages against newspapers were past. But the jury in the Sugar trial awarded the same sum for hurt feelings that the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme recommends for the loss of both arms or the loss of both eyes. (They later reached an out of court compromise on \u00a360,000 - itself equivalent to both the loss of a tongue and an injury causing \"permanent disabling mental disorder.\") David Yelland at the Sun was naturally pleased to win his recent appeal against Bruce Grobbelaar, the goalkeeper accused of throwing matches. He will have been less pleased at the judges' scathing rejection of the paper's appeal to have some form of qualified privilege for its reporting. The issue of qualified privilege (see below) - a measure of protection for journalism in the public interest - was also at the heart of a powerful editorial written last week by the Times editor, Peter Stothard, in relation to his case beginning today in the high court. In pre-trial argument in the court of appeal last week the Times was prevented from using certain material as part of its defence. Add to this melange of cases a number of other controversial issues - the right to report courts, the right to report local councils, the threat of being sued in distant countries for material posted on the internet, the right to receive information from the police - and you currently have a lot of editors and lawyers extremely concerned about the gradual erosion of press freedom in this country. The challenge facing the press is whether it is prepared to see these issues as in any way connected and whether editors can see a way of forming a common cause to fight these threats together. Take our friends Brett &amp; Crone. Broadsheet Brett wants to get more concessions for the press so that responsible Mr Stothard can write about people in public life in an unencumbered way. But Mr Brett, being a sophisticated sort, will know that no politician or judge is going to make a single concession to the press without cast-iron guarantees that it wouldn't be used to help tabloid editors kick down bedroom doors. Mr Stothard himself would probably not be unduly worried by giving guarantees on privacy (with appropriate public interest safeguards) if he could get a decent libel law on the statute books. The Times does not often invade people's privacy without good reason. Over the road at Wapping, Mr Crone currently approaches the problem from precisely the other end of the telescope. Mr Crone will fight tooth and nail to prevent any concessions on privacy. His papers - rather more profitable to Mr Murdoch than the Times - thrive on invading privacy. Libel, to him, is a secondary issue. So the reality is that unless Brett &amp; Crone - and their counterparts on other titles - can work out some kind of common path, the press will never present a united front on many of these issues. And without a united front from the press it is inevitable that other people will sort it out for them. Those \"other people\" are likely to be judges. Politicians may run scared at the first whiff of grapeshot from Lord Wakeham or the executive chairman of News International, Les Hinton. Judges are another matter altogether. Recent judgments in a variety of courts since the introduction of the Human Rights Act have tended to show a keen appreciation of the importance of Article 10, which protects freedom of expression. But - as the Grobbelaar, Zeta-Jones, Lambeth and Albert Reynolds cases show - judges are also determined to carve out a concept of responsible reporting which shows due recognition of other, sometimes conflicting, rights. The press's traditional answer is to plead that everything should be left to self-regulation. The Anna Ford judicial review, if it goes ahead, will be a stern test of that. Firstly, the case would establish whether or not PCC judgments are capable of judicial review (answer: probably yes). It would then establish whether the PCC's assorted judgments on long-lens photography amount to a coherent policy (answer: probably not). In the longer term the PCC may have to demonstrate that it offers sufficient remedies - as required by the Human Rights Act. There may or may not be limited sympathy for celebrities who take to the courts. The case of Esther Thomas is a different kettle of fish, involving as it does an ordinary young black woman - in no conventional sense a public figure. On any account she suffered an extremely unpleasant experience as a result of the attacks on her by Sun journalists and readers. Whether this is enough to justify any form of legal protection is another issue: it would be easy to see any number of Vazes, Hindujas and Ashcrofts rushing in on her coat tails. Because there are so many current cases involving vital issues of freedom of expression, the Guardian is launching a regular media law page. In this section every week we will examine these issues in some depth. I very much hope that the players in these issues will take part in this important debate. Including, or even especially, Messrs Brett &amp; Crone. Qualified Privilege (QP) QP is the concept that papers ought to receive extra protection from being sued for libel if they are writing about matters in the public interest and which the public has an interest in receiving. In America the so-called Sullivan doctrine means that public figures find it virtually impossible to sue newspapers unless they can prove that they were reckless or motivated by malice. Newspapers are protected, even if they make honest mistakes. In British law the judgment in the libel action brought by Albert Reynolds against the Sunday Times provides certain protection for newspapers. But they have to satisfy certain conditions before they can claim QP. Judges will consider, among other things, the seriousness of the charges, the source of the information, the steps taken to verify the information, the urgency of the matter and whether comment was sought from the claimant before publication. \u0095 Alan Rusbridger is editor of the Guardian and a member of the Society of Editors' Parliamentary and Legal Committee.",
  "title": "Alan Rusbridger on press freedom",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/press-freedom",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "A supermodel and a former police clerk are just two people bringing court cases that may threaten press freedom. But why do these actions pose such a menace to the future of British newspapers? Alan Rusbridger explains.",
  "id": "media/2001/mar/19/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}