{
  "content": "At first glance, a gentle BBC comedy by Caroline Aherne about the marital problems of a retired Australian couple seems an unlikely Trojan horse for a Big Brother conspiracy. But earlier this summer, Dossa and Joe became the first substantive example of the little-understood power of digital television, when up to 50,000 unsuspecting viewers woke up to find a copy of the critically acclaimed - but low-rated - series on the hard drive of their digital video recorders. It was the digital equivalent of junk mail. And there will be plenty more of it soon - not only for Tivo subscribers. Interactive television (iTV) technology might give you the impression that you are in greater control of what you watch than before - but this control comes at a price. Someone else is watching you, watching them. In the small print of the Sky Digital contract, for example - signed by 6 million people - is a clause that commits subscribers to hooking the set-top box up to a telephone line. Ever wondered what sort of information could be travelling down that line? Privacy campaigners warn that Bill Gates's Microsoft and Rupert Murdoch's NDS (the satellite TV technology company accused of mass-scale piracy of a rival operators' software) are involved in the development of technology that will enable them to keep a detailed track on what their subscribers are up to. The Center for Digital Democracy, a US-based campaign group, said in a report last year: \"The model that these companies are following combines the worst aspects of the internet and mass media, as the new systems are designed to track not only every activity of users as they surf the net, but also the programmes and commercials they watch. We believe that iTV data-collection practices represent a new threat to personal privacy.\" The Dossa and Joe episode is a good illustration of the potential of such technology. The BBC had paid Tivo - one of a new breed of digital recorders that is seen as the future of television viewing (\"watch what you want, when you can\") - to set the devices of all its subscribers to record the sitcom, as part of a trial to see how television programmes could be marketed in the digital age. It seemed a perfectly logical step. Nobody would be forced to watch the comedy, but it might tempt a few viewers into sampling it. Of those, some might go on to be regular viewers. No one loses out. The BBC and Tivo, however, did not anticipate the negative reaction. Subscribers were furious and the press sensed a story. Some of the coverage focused on the adult nature of the comedy (\"foul-mouthed\", said one report), and how it could be easily accessed by children. But others picked up on what had really niggled the Tivo subscribers - their sudden loss of control. Personal video recorders (PVRs) such as Tivo - the only other system available in Britain at the moment is Sky Plus - are sold on the promise of control. They allow viewers to record hours of programming, store it all on a hard drive and view at leisure later, with crystal clear picture and sound and without the need for piles of video tape. Suddenly, however, viewers realised that they were not at all in control, that someone else had other ideas. As Granville Williams, of the Campaign for Press and Broadcasting Freedom, put it: \"Consumers were told that Tivo would give them greater control, yet exactly the opposite has happened here. Someone has decided, 'This is what you want to watch'.\" Tivo pointed out that viewers were not forced to watch the suggested programme. But of those who did, few would have been aware of the implications of their choice: that they were themselves being watched. Potentially, Tivo technology allows the BBC to tell exactly how many people choose to watch programmes delivered in this way - and, of them, how many go on to watch the rest of the series. (In the case of Dossa and Joe, not many, as it turned out.) All of which is very handy for the corporation's marketing department. At the moment, Tivo has around 50,000 subscribers in the UK, with a further 25,000 on the less sophisticated Sky Plus system. Imagine how useful that information will be if a day comes when everyone has a digital video recorder - schedules could be changed and commissioning decisions taken instantly. But the power of the PVR is not limited to making life easier for television executives. The commercial beauty of devices such as Tivo - and, indeed, digital set-top boxes in general - is the \"return path\": in the small print of the subscriber contract is a clause that obliges you to keep the box hooked up to your telephone line at all times. Every time you make a choice on Tivo, information about that choice is sent back down the line to the digital TV firm's headquarters. This allows Tivo to build up a highly detailed picture of the interests of every subscriber. This can work to your benefit as a viewer: the Tivo machine will get a handle on the sorts of programmes you like and automatically suggest others in a similar genre. As a fan of Home Front, for example, you might also be interested in DIY SOS, House Doctor and Location Location Location. But is unlikely that many viewers will think outside the (digital) box, even though it does not take a major empirical leap to see how this information could be used. You like property programmes? Maybe you are moving house. Which means you might need a mortgage. Or a home improvement loan. A new kitchen? Furniture? And probably, after all that, a holiday. When devices such as Tivo first came on the scene, advertisers were worried that they would simply enable viewers to fast-forward over their commercials. But that was before they realised how the sophisticated technology could be used to their advantage: Tivo is undertaking trials in the US that allows advertisers to \"download\" targeted campaigns to groups of viewers - whether it is fans of DIY programmes, motoring shows or travelogues. The furious reaction to the Dossa and Joe incident in Britain took Tivo completely by surprise. In an extensive missive to enraged consumers on the tivocommunity.com talkboard, Bob Pony of Tivo's US marketing department , pleaded with subscribers to stay on board. He wrote: \"I need to make one thing absolutely clear. You are not experiencing 'the thin end of a very large wedge'. That has not, and never will be Tivo's goal. We're focused on giving you the best television experience possible. Yes, we will have promotions. We will take care to make them as non-intrusive as possible. Not all promotions will appeal to all people. But we hope that you will find value in this service, and appreciate your constructive comments going forward.\" So be under no illusion: the subtext of Pony's remarks is that the forward march is continuing apace. Broadcasters are aware of the sensitivities surrounding this issue. Potentially, your digital box could be used to monitor what channels you watch, how you use the electronic programme guide, what buttons you press on your remote control. At the moment, that sort of information is not collected. BSkyB, for example, insists that the only data it collects about consumers from the digital TV box in their living rooms is the information required to process pay-per-view events - largely movies and sports, but also including subscription services such as the Big Brother reality show game, TV shopping and other pay facilities. It does not use its decoder box, or the Sky Plus video recorder, to collect viewing data \"at the moment\". Pace Micro Technology, which manufactures many of the set-top boxes in use in the UK, acknowledges that the capability is almost limitless. The only constraint at the moment is critical mass. Pace, which makes the Sky Plus boxes for BSkyB, points out that only 25,000 have been sold so far, meaning there is not much point in collecting the sort of data that would have privacy campaigners quaking in their boots. But the technology is available for them to do so, if they wanted. Dossa and Joe forced digital television subscribers to wake up to aspects of the service they had previously failed to appreciate. Bob Pony makes the future sound bright: just make sure you don't get blinded. \u00b7 Matt Wells is The Guardian's media correspondent.",
  "title": "Watchers and the watched",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Your digital set sits quietly in the corner and records all of your favourite programmes. But, asks Matt Wells, what else is it recording?",
  "id": "uk/2002/sep/07/privacy.mattwells",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}