{
  "content": "03 September 2010 Dear Mr Stephenson, I write as a Member of Parliament, a former cabinet office minister and a member of the culture, media and sport select committee which took evidence last year from Andy Coulson and Les Hinton about the News of the World's illegal phone-hacking operations. The Metropolitan Police's historic and continued mishandling of this affair is bringing your force, and hence our democracy, into disrepute. Former assistant commissioner Brian Paddick has requested a judicial review of the Metropolitan Police's investigation (or lack of it \u2013 we do not know) into his phone being hacked by newspapers while he was a serving officer. This is extraordinary. Indeed, it would appear that the Metropolitan Police (MPS) may have deliberately withheld from this serving senior officer the information that his phone had been hacked. Please confirm whether this is true. The phone of a serving Metropolitan Police commissioner was also on a list of numbers intended to be hacked by newspapers. It has been reported that an MPS investigation established that his phone had not been hacked. Please confirm whether this is true. If it is, please confirm whether the phone of every other name on any list found of numbers intended to be hacked was also investigated. If not, please confirm who decided, according to what criteria and on what authority which names to investigate and which to ignore. Today it has emerged that another senior MPS officer, Michael Fuller, was also on Glen Mulcaire's list. Please confirm how many MPS officers were on lists of names to be illegally hacked, which were investigated and which were notified. Much anger and concern centres on your force's failure to inform people that their names had been found on these lists. Please confirm exactly how many names were on Mulcaire's and any other lists. Many Members of Parliament were on these lists. The Metropolitan Police has strongly implied that all Members of Parliament so targeted had been informed. This was not true. Please confirm how many Members of Parliament were on the lists. Please confirm who decided which Members of Parliament to notify, according to what criteria and on what authority. Please confirm, in all other cases, who selected which victims should be notified, on what criteria, on what authority and who else had any requisite knowledge? Please confirm who went to seize the materials, where are these materials stored, and what processes do the Met go through when answering letters and enquiries about these materials? The New York Times allege key evidence was withheld from the Crown Prosecutions Service. Please confirm that all evidence was provided to the Crown Prosecution Service. Your conduct of this matter is being scrutinised all over the world. So far, it is bringing shame \u2013 as has News International \u2013 on our country. I await your early response. Yours sincerely Tom Watson Member of Parliament for West Bromwich East",
  "title": "Tom Watson's letter to the Metropolitan police commissioner",
  "lead": "Tom Watson, MP for West Bromwich East, writes to Sir Paul Stephenson about the News of the World phone-hacking scandal",
  "tags": [
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/tom-watson",
    "uk/sir-paul-stephenson",
    "uk/police",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/metropolitan-police",
    "uk/west-bromwich"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2010/sep/03/now-phone-hacking-tom-watson",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}