{
  "content": "mondai februery 18th deer diary, i jst came of a looong flite from vienna all the wai 2 holywood!!1! i was hopin that terruns malicks new film wud be showin cos i usualy find it tuff 2 sleep on planes lol. But i had 2 settul 4 lookn at picturs of my stinky cat on my fone and punkin ppl with my whoopee cushun wot i borowed from lars von trees!!1!. aftr i landid i went 4 dinnr with harvey winesteen who is a film produser and also he sed he is a self tort film editor 2!!1! 1stly he gayve me 1000 austrian dollrs 2 tell every1 that he actualy prodused my film amour. such a niys gestchur!!1! then he sed we shud werk 2gethr on my nxt film which he told me wud b like wot i dun b4 but with mor oscar potenshul. i showd him my plan4 a film wot wud win lots of oscars. it starrs mertyl streep (river wild) as a disabld aids-riddun lesbian in werld war 2 who sings 4 blak def orfans lol. he luvs it!!1! got bak 2 my room and watchd dan in real life on caybul. it's a tru crime documentery of this time wen my frend juliet binosh was kidnapd by thugs n forcd 2 do things on camera. its very hard4me 2 watch lol tuesdai februery 19th deer diary, 2dai i had 2 meet with lotsof designrs who wantd 2 dres me 4 the Oscars!!1! i felt like i was in an episode of austrias nxt top model but i didnt evn hav 2 go on a diet of cabage and bein sick. yaaay. i kept tellin every1 that i wantd a diyumond enkrustd blak turtulneck with a whiyt ribbun but the dres code sed i had 2 b in my suit and tye. everytme sum1 sed this i wud say \"but the code is unknwn 2 me!!1!\" and i wud laugh but i don't think many ppl here knws the referens. wud hav gone down wel in vienna. then i pretendid 2 has a stroke in kfc 2 get a free lunch. i lurnt it from amour!!1! in the evenin i had ang lees sleepovr 4 all the best directr nominees. i txtd ben afleck 2 c if he wantd 2 shair a taxi but then rememburd that hes not nominaytid. i keep forgettin lol. wen i got 2 the sleepovr ang lee was makin his tiger do danses 4 evry1. we all sat round and playd dreem fone and prank calld pizzas 2 ben aflecks house undr the naym fart garfunkel. poor ben. i realy thort his biopic of the parot in aladin wud hav dun betr lol wednusdai februery 20th deer diary, i been doin practise questions 4 my red carpit intervyoos at the oscars. my maid has been pritendin 2 b ryan seecrest which werks out well as they r both lesbians. she askn \"who ru wareing?\" and i keep 4gettn wot the stylist b tellin me so i jst say \"who is i wareing? wot am i, hannibul lectur!!1!\" and my maid keeps laughn at dat. 2b fair she gets money dockd if she doesn't laugh at my jokess. in the evenin i go 2 meet my frend bret ratner who directs 2 (he did a mariah carrey video 1ce i think) and he tayks me 2 his favurite hootrs. he b doin research 4 his hootrs biopic lol. he spent aaaages doin audishuns in the bak room so i was showin of and gayv 1 of my parms dorz as a tip (i has 2). aftr dis i went 2 go c my frend dayvid lynch. his pet dwarf was bringin us mor and mor shots of tequila and then dayvid insistd at 3am that we swap personalitees even tho it mayd no sens lol. i dun had the werst nitemairs wen i got bak 2 my room lol. thursdai februery 21st deer diary, my hed hurts!!1! i did way 2 much glue last nite lol. 2day i try 2 do sum siteseein. 1stly i dressd up my cat like julie roberts in the prety woman film wen shes a prostityoot. then i took him 2 the hi-class stors so we cud reeliv the famous seen!!1! he got kickd out but probly cos of his fartin. aftr that we had sum charity werk 2 do. sinc my new parms dorz winin film amour is about old ppl gettn strokes i disidid i wud giv sumthin bak. so iv been doin counselin with directrs who havnt won any parms dorz. not even 1!!1! mayks me so sad. 1st stop was bak 2 hootrs 2 find bret ratner. poor littul guy. then we were gona do mor but we got tiyud lol. helpin ppl is xhaustin!!1!i only has 3 sleeps now until the oscars!!1! shud giv me enuff time to download enuff ghost whisperer episods 2 watch in the bits wen im not winnin anythng lol. which wont leev me much time lol.",
  "title": "The Oscar week diary of @Michael_Haneke",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "film/oscars-2013",
    "film/film",
    "culture/culture",
    "film/michael-haneke",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "From pitching a film to 'winesteen' to a debauched night with David Lynch, Twitter's @Michael_Haneke shares an Oscar week diary with a difference",
  "id": "film/2013/feb/21/oscar-week-diary-michael-haneke",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}