{
  "content": "When Sony said that its PlayStation Network (PSN) had been hacked in April, potentially releasing the personal details of 77 million people - such as their email address, physical address and date of birth - people understood that restoring the service might be difficult, and that to ensure security they might be asked to change their password. What users hadn't expected was that Sony would bring the service back up and require them to change their password - but that all you'd need to provide would be an email address and date of birth. In other words, exactly the details that the hackers putatively already have. That oversight has forced Sony to take down a website it had set up to help those 77 million access the network, which is still struggling to get back online after weeks out of action. Sony spokesman Dan Race admitted that there was \"a security hole\" in the system: \"If I had your email and your birth date I could get access to your account,\" he said. But he insisted that no hacking had taken place on the website and that PSN account holders can still change their password on their consoles at home. However, the reaction from web users was obvious: how would Sony know if a hacker had used the details? In fact at least one did: the gaming news site Nylevia.com, which first discovered the flaw , said it was alerted to the problem after someone got in contact and demonstrated how to do it, using just an account email and associated date of birth. The site suggested that people should create a new email address that they would not use anywhere else, and switch their PSN account to use that. The embarrassment comes just a day after Sir Howard Stringer, Sony's chief executive, hit back at critics who said that Sony hadn't moved quickly enough to tell consumers about the security breach in the first place. \"This was an unprecedented situation,\" Stringer told reporters. \"Most of these breaches go unreported by companies. 43% [of companies] notify victims within a month. We reported in a week. You're telling me my week wasn't fast enough?\" The attack, considered the biggest in internet history, prompted the Japanese electronics giant to shut down its PlayStation Network and other services for close to a month. Critics slammed the company for waiting up to a week before telling its customers of the attack and the possible theft of credit card information, prompting lawmakers and state attorneys general to launch investigations. Two members of the US house of representatives sent a letter to Sony on Tuesday, urging it to respond to questions about its security strategy and reveal more details about the data breach. In the letter, Mary Bono Mack of California and GK Butterfield of North Carolina said they had contacted Sony on 29 April but none of their questions had been answered by the company. The lawmakers asked Sony to respond to questions by 25 May. Sony said it expected to face monetary charges from the break-in but was still assessing the damage. \"There's a charge for the system being down \u2026 a charge for identity theft insurance,\" Stringer said. \"The charges mount up, but they don't add up to a number we can quantify just yet.\" One expert suggested that costs from the break-in could reach as high as $2bn. However, Sony executives said there was nothing to support some reports that hackers had used Amazon's servers to launch the attack. Sony has begun restoring parts of the network last weekend in the United States and expects a full recovery in all countries by the end of May. Sony appears to have become the target for hackers because of its practice of clamping down on customers who meddle with its systems. It sued a famed hacker, George Hotz, earlier this year for copyright infringement and circumventing the PlayStation 3 console's protection schemes. The company settled the charges against Hotz on 11 April. About a week later, Sony's systems were hacked. Hotz, who is well known for \"jailbreaking\", or unlocking Apple iPhones, said on his blog that he was not involved in the PSN break-in. Mark Harding, a Maxim Group analyst, said Sony could have employed less severe methods to protect itself from copyright infringement. \"There were probably better ways Sony could have done it without being heavy-handed,\" he said. Stringer said the attack was likely related to its suit against Hotz but defended Sony's actions. \"An act was done that was dangerous to Sony, dangerous to PlayStation and we thought it was a criminal act and we had to protect ourselves.\"",
  "title": "PlayStation Network 'security hole' sparks hacking concerns among users",
  "lead": "Sony forced to take down website set up to help users regain access to network after exposure of flaw in password system",
  "tags": [
    "technology/playstation",
    "technology/games",
    "technology/sony",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/internet",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2011/may/19/sony-playstation-network-hacking-password",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}