{
  "content": "Name: Fit-shaming. Age: Surprisingly recent. Appearance: Glistening and lithe, and offended that you have even noticed, frankly. Ugh, another piece about fat-shaming? This is getting tedious. No, you fool. Everyone knows about fat-shaming. This concerns fit-shaming, the exact opposite of that. I don't understand. You know Protein World? The company that recently found widespread infamy by chiding the public about their horrible beach bodies in a series of universally derided ads on the London Underground? I do now, thanks to your bizarrely thorough line of questioning. The backlash against its ad campaign has been so overwhelming that the company has now started accused those protesting against it of being 'fit shamers'. You mean? That's right. You might see a lot of people getting angry about a company's shameless exploitation of a socially conditioned insecurity, but all Protein World sees is a vile prejudice against the healthy. Is this a thing that really happened? Hand on heart. Richard Staveley, the head of Protein World's marketing department, said: \"It's been quite odd how many people we've found who are far quicker to fit-shame than fat-shame. And, you know, if that makes us bad, then so be it\". Blimey. They're the Ryanair of obscure dietary supplements. He also claimed to be delighted that Katie Hopkins agreed with him, but we all know better than to mention her at this stage. So what now? Is fit-shaming a real thing? It absolutely is, and that's great. Those perfect idiots with their incredible abdominals and bottoms so tight you could ping coins off them, they've got it coming. No, really, is it a thing? Of course it isn't a bloody thing. Who'd want to shame fit people? They're fitter than us. They'd probably beat us up. Then what's going on? It's a concept invented by a company too entrenched in an argument to back out gracefully. And, in honesty, we are probably not helping anyone by going on about it now. Still, it's fun to watch. Do say: \"Perhaps we should maybe try not shaming anyone.\" Don't say: \"Hey, get a load of this one trying to stop me shaming people. I'm being shame-shamed!\"",
  "title": "Fit-shaming: it's like fat-shaming, but the exact opposite",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/diets-dieting",
    "media/advertising",
    "media/media",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "lifeandstyle/women",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Protein World, unhappy that its controversial 'beach body ready' adverts are backfiring, has taken aim at its detractors and invented a whole new concept that could soon go global",
  "id": "lifeandstyle/shortcuts/2015/apr/28/fit-shaming-fat-shaming-exact-opposite-protein-world-beach-body",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}