{
  "content": "'And now it's over to Alastair Stewart in the ITN newsroom for the latest on the devastating tram crash in Manchester's Weatherfield district that has left three people dead \u2026\" The veteran anchorman adopts his most sombre tone as stunned residents line up to deliver eyewitness accounts of the fireball still raging over the cobbles. But it's a newsflash that is available only to viewers \u2013 hungry for every twist and turn \u2013 who switch from tonight's dramatic episode to the itv.com website. The episode kicks off a week that climaxes on Thursday, the soap's 50th birthday, with a live episode and a 50 top-clips compilation. The tram crash video \"newsflashes\", screened daily online, reflect ITV's determination to ensure that the world's longest-running soap remains the broadcaster's flagship series in an age of fragmented viewing and a flight to social media. The X Factor may grab more headlines but no programme is more ingrained in ITV's DNA than \"Corrie\". Landmark events, such as the death of Jack Duckworth last month, still pull in nearly 11 million viewers. The tram crash storyline and the hour-long live special, a throwback to the earliest days of the serial created by Tony Warren, will push those numbers even higher, generating bumper pre-Christmas advertising revenues for ITV. Corrie is the most powerful brand owned by ITV Studios, with international sales to 40 countries and merchandising and sponsorship opportunities that deliver revenues direct to the broadcaster, instead of Simon Cowell's pockets. So it is understandable that ITV has found extra cash to hire the feature film CGI experts The Mill to enhance tonight's spectacular, which features an explosion in The Joinery bar, blowing a hole in Weatherfield's iconic viaduct and derailing the unfortunate passing tram. \"It's going to be an extraordinary week of TV,\" promises Kieran Roberts, Coronation Street's executive producer. \"The tram crash is the most expensive episode we have ever made [costing about \u00a31m]. It really will take your breath away.\" Soap dodgers Every soap relies on crashes, fireballs and cast-decimating explosions for a short-term viewer injection, but even tonight's carnage is unlikely to unite the nation quite like Hilda Ogden's farewell to the Street \u2013 watched by a record 26.6 million viewers on Christmas Day 1987. Time-shifted viewing, digital competition and the reluctance of younger viewers to follow a linear television schedule are challenges to soaps, which demand regular attention with up to five episodes a week. Roberts is nevertheless bullish about Coronation Street's prospects. \"There was a period of audience decline around 2002-3. People asked if it was inexorable. But digital switchover has helped check that decline. We're averaging 9.5 million viewers an episode and our younger audience has remained rock solid.\" Web viewing has helped retain soap-viewing loyalty. A live episode of EastEnders this year became the most-watched programme on the iPlayer, with more than 1 million viewers logging on to find out who killed Archie and watch Bradley fall to his death. Coronation Street gets 1.6m catchup views a week on the ITV website. But watching Corrie on catchup will not be enough to secure another 50 years of dominance, predicts Ben Ayers, the former head of social media at ITV, who is now the head of social media at the communications agency Carat. \"The glue that holds audience behaviour together is loosening,\" he says. \"ITV needs to understand the importance of recommendations and sharing through Facebook and Twitter. People want different types of content, sometimes short-form for their iPhone, other times a complete episode.\" Roberts insists that Coronation Street has grasped the web challenge. \"We now have a senior digital producer who is part of the show and looks at storylines for opportunities for web interactivity.\" And, to mark the 50th anniversary, itv.com is launching a spin-off, Gary's Army Diaries, three webisodes that follow the impact on Gary Windass and his family of his tour of duty in Afghanistan. But ITV needs to ensure that new digital ventures don't damage the core brand. A new interactive Facebook game, Corrie Nation, was supposed to allow players to build their own Weatherfield, using real currency to buy \"virtual products\". But it was taken offline for further technical work amid grumbling from early adopters. \"It's still very much in a beta-testing phase,\" says Roberts. Independently of ITV, the Bodog gaming site is inviting viewers to place bets on which characters will be claimed by the great crash as the action unfolds in tonight's episode. A banker for cast and crew possibly, although Roberts promises: \"We've done everything we can to keep it secret.\" Digital demands If Corrie is going to thrive in the new on-demand world, it may have to pay close attention to a youthful upstart: the Chester-set Channel 4 teen soap Hollyoaks, which has 900,000 Facebook friends. The bed-hopping antics of its glossy cast reach an audience of 16 million a week, split between Channel 4, E4 and its website. \"Our audience understands how different platforms complement each other,\" says Carolyn Reynolds, the series' executive producer at Lime Pictures. \"They don't differentiate between television and online. We have a floating audience that can be more fickle. They go to the website for clips to see what happens next. But if the storytelling is good they'll watch an episode all over again online to repeat a favourite scene.\" Exploiting Hollyoaks's power as a youth brand is vital for keeping the show on air, Reynolds says: \"These are expensive pieces of drama for the broadcaster. The old funding models no longer work.\" The soap partnered with Matalan to create a new multi-platform Hollyoaks Music Show for E4, featuring stars such as Tinchy Stryder, which helped drive viewers back to the drama. Hollyoaks is also changing the grammar of soaps in a manner that appeals to younger viewers but which old hands on EastEnders and Coronation Street could be reluctant to embrace. \"Our storytelling is much pacier and bolder. We'll do fantasy scenes and flashforwards. Our audience will take it, You couldn't have done that on Corrie,\" says Reynolds, a former Coronation Street producer. Will the pressure on Corrie to deliver ratings mean more \"events\" such as the ghost of Vera Duckworth returning to say goodbye to the dying Jack? \"There was a moment's silence when the writer pitched it,\" Roberts replies. \"But it worked as a piece of magic realism. It was right that Jack was reunited with Vera in his final moments, it was true to the show.\" \"We have to be careful that we don't do gimmickry,\" he adds, maintaining the serial can do justice to its proud heritage while embracing the future: \"Character always comes first. Going right back to Tony Warren's first episodes, they didn't have huge storylines but they had characters that leapt off the screen. \"The tram crash is just a catalyst for real drama. Yes, we're crashing a tram into the cobbles but we're really crashing a tram through the lives of these characters, turning their lives upside down and examining the consequences for their relationships through powerful drama.\" Even (as in this week's episodes) creating an emotional visual montage to the backdrop of a U2 song, a trick used in many US dramas, required a discussion about its suitability for such a staunchly traditional drama. ITV bosses used to complain privately that the close-knit Corrie production team were reluctant to accept innovations. But the soap, now spruced up and shot in HD, is in \"rude health\", according to Reynolds. Paying a premium Head office should let the onscreen drama take care of itself but experiment with more ambitious ideas to monetise the show, says Carat's Ben Ayers: \"I think there are maybe 100,000 Corrie \"superfans\" that ITV could tap into. They would pay a premium for opportunities to meet the cast, go on location. They might even pay a couple of quid to get an advance web view of the next episode. Their feedback would be valuable to producers to inform the series' future direction.\" That would require a much more open, genuinely interactive relationship between a soap's producers and viewers than merely trying to flog them a Corrie Christmas album of cast members singing songs with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra \u2013 currently available exclusively though Tesco. For Corrie's producers, it's the hot breath from its deadly rival EastEnders that is the overriding daily concern. \"None of these innovations will follow unless we make a show that grips everyone,\" says Roberts. \"The 24-minute episode has survived pretty much for 50 years and I don't believe it's in danger just yet. It's the mothership around which all these other spin-offs revolve.\" Is it reasonable to expect a new generation of fickle viewers to make a commitment to watch each episode, the habit-forming lifeblood of the soap industry? \"It's important to drive viewers to as many episodes as possible,\" argues Roberts. \"I want to convert casual viewers into fans. That's the challenge the writers set themselves.\" He's unsentimental about the 50th anniversary. \"It's important to do justice to the 50 years and the show's tradition. But even when we plotted out the crash, we were thinking about how this would be a springboard for what we'll be doing into next year and way beyond that.\" Having made the move to HD, there's one final technological challenge for the Street's traumatised residents to face. When will soap addicts enjoy the first episode broadcast in 3D? Roberts is cautious: \"I can see that debate coming in a few years' time. I did ask myself, how exciting would that tram crash have looked in 3D?\"",
  "title": "Coronation Street blasts into the future on its 50th birthday",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/ITV",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/television",
    "culture/culture",
    "tv-and-radio/soap-opera",
    "tv-and-radio/tv-and-radio",
    "tv-and-radio/coronation-street",
    "technology/facebook",
    "culture/television",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "The ITV soap features a dramatic storyline but can it use digital media to keep its fans hooked? By Adam Sherwin",
  "id": "media/2010/dec/06/coronation-street-50th-birthday-itv",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}