{
  "content": "We're increasingly familiar with the \"dark web\" through technology like Tor, but how about \"dark social\" \u2013 sharing that happens outside trackable social networks like Facebook and Twitter? Online advertising firm RadiumOne has been trying to quantify the scale of dark social sharing (PDF), with a survey of more than 9,000 people plus data from their online sharing tools to understand how they share through tools like email and instant messaging, which are much less trackable through traditional web analytics. Among its findings: \"Sharing activity through email, instant messaging and forum posts, aka Dark Social, is three times larger than the sharing activity on Facebook, globally. 69% of all sharing activity takes place via Dark Social globally versus 23% via Facebook.\" 32% of people who share online only do it via dark social channels. The theory here being that anyone analysing traditional social networking traffic alone is missing up to a third of activity. This being a white paper from an advertising company, of course part of the reason for publishing it is to tell advertisers that RadiumOne can help them analyse that dark social traffic. But it's an interesting study, reminding us that while the data from the big social networks can be fascinating to crunch, it's not the whole story. What else is on the tech radar today? Here are some links to think about: Apple iTunes antitrust lawsuit gets underway In 2014, Apple has been mulling how to respond to the threat posed to iTunes by streaming music services like Spotify. Yet the company is also in court for an antitrust lawsuit first filed in 2005 over its response to another (then) rival: RealNetworks. The focus: DRM software that locked iTunes purchases to iPods, complete with a 2011 deposition from late CEO Steve Jobs. How 3D printing is used for facial transplants A reminder that 3D printing is more than just a novelty in the medical sector: it's being used by surgeons to prepare for facial transplants for patients who've suffered traumatic injuries. \"This is a complex surgery and its success is dependent on surgical planning. Our study demonstrated that if you use this model and hold the skull in your hand, there is no better way to plan the procedure...\" Flickr under fire for selling users' photos Well, it's photo-sharing service Flickr's parent company Yahoo that's fielding criticism, after it emerged that it was selling prints of photos that had been made available on the site under Creative Commons licences. What's controversial is that Yahoo isn't sharing revenues from the canvas prints with the original photographers: it's legal, but is it fair? Obama to provide funding for police body cameras One of the results of recent events in Ferguson is a step up in the intensity of the campaign to get more police wearing body cameras in the US, recording their work. Now the White House has announced $263m in new funding for law enforcement agencies to buy these cameras \u2013 up to 50,000 \u2013 and train police in their use. Google's Santa Tracker returns Finally, it's December, so Google's annual Santa Tracker site is back, promising a new project or game each day \u2013 children are the main target \u2013 leading up to Christmas Day. \"the reindeers need training and the presents need packing. They're studying up on Santa's upcoming stops with candy cane cartography, holiday tradition tests, and even jolly JavaScript courses...\" What else? The comments section is open for your thoughts on the stories above, and your recommendations for other links worth checking out today. \u2022 This article was amended on 3 December 2014 to clarify that the study findings come from a survey of more than 9,000 people plus data from RadiumOne's online sharing tools.",
  "title": "Facebook is half as popular as 'dark social' for sharing \u2013\u00a0Open thread",
  "lead": "Have your say on less trackable social activity, as well as iTunes lawsuit, 3D printing in facial transplants, Flickr controversy and more",
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/itunes",
    "technology/3d-printing",
    "technology/flickr",
    "technology/yahoo",
    "technology/photography",
    "us-news/barack-obama",
    "technology/google",
    "lifeandstyle/christmas",
    "technology/computing",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2014/dec/02/facebook-dark-social-sharing-open-thread",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}