{
  "content": "Judges may let journalists tweet from Scottish courts more often now that the media have been allowed to do so for the first time at Tommy Sheridan's sentencing hearing. Journalists for the BBC, STV, Sky and the Guardian published brief updates as Sheridan received three years in jail for perjury in his libel action against the News of the World in 2006. Lord Hamilton, Scotland's most senior criminal judge, permitted the media to send \"live text-based communications\" for the first time in a Scottish court after applications by STV and Sky. The decision, supported by the trial judge, Lord Bracadale, follows a judge's decision to allow journalists to tweet during Julian Assange's bail hearings in London last year. The Sheridan trial had already broken new ground with social media: the blogger James Doleman produced a widely praised daily blog of all 48 days of the case. It is thought to be highly unlikely that journalists will be allowed to tweet during trials because that would risk interfering with the proper administation of justice, said Elizabeth Cutting, head of judicial communications for the Judicial Office of Scotland (@JudgesScotland). Judges might, however, allow a verdict to be tweeted. Cutting said she was pleased with the experiment and the \"very positive\" reaction on Twitter. She had seen rail passengers following the sentencing hearing using the tweets. The Scottish judiciary would closely study reaction to new guidelines about tweeting from English and Welsh courts, which are due to be published imminently. Future applications from the media to tweet court hearings would be judged on individual cases, she said, and judges had not yet ruled out allowing journalists to write longer blogs. There were no plans at present to allow members of the public to tweet from court. Yesterday's sentencing for Sheridan, after the longest perjury case in Scottish legal history, was a \"low-risk\" situation, Cutting said, because no jury and no witnesses were involved. \"It's gone very well as far as I'm concerned, but anything else will have to be done on a case by case basis. There's a huge amount of judicial discretion in this: it's very much down to judges what they do or don't allow in court.\"",
  "title": "Tweeting in court spreads to Scotland",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/law",
    "media/medialaw",
    "technology/twitter",
    "uk/scotland",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "Judicial Office of Scotland says more 'live text-based communications' may be allowed after journalists tweet Tommy Sheridan's sentencing",
  "id": "law/2011/jan/27/twitter-courts-scotland",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}