{
  "content": "The Australian Bureau of Statistics has referred 667 Australians for prosecution for failing to complete their census \u2013 with one Australian even facing a $10,000 fine \u2013 despite senior figures claiming they \"rarely\" enforce the penalty. The ABS is facing an increasing backlash over the 2016 census due to privacy concerns over the extended retention of names and addresses for a period of four years. The prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, has sought to reassure the public about the process and said on Wednesday the ABS \"always protect people's privacy\". A range of groups are now openly calling for a boycott of the census, despite the possibility of heavy fines for failing to complete it. The ABS has sought to diminish the frequency that it uses the punishment. The New South Wales census director, Liz Bolzan, told ABC radio on Wednesday that there was \"a penalty for outright refusing to do your census form and it's very, very rare for that to be enforced\". The ABS said it had referred 667 prosecutions to the commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions since 1990. Separate documents obtained by Guardian Australia under freedom-of-information laws that disclose the outcomes of 327 of the cases show that of the 217 cases that went to court, 214 resulted in a guilty verdict, with two of those subsequently appealing. 110 of the referrals were discontinued for a variety of reasons. In a case in 2000, a person was charged for 10 counts of failing to answer questions and was fined $10,000. There were 164 total fines, with some people avoiding penalties in court. The fines across the timeframe of prosecutions disclosed by the CDPP show that they amounted to $52,455. A single census fine can apply to just one question on the census and can also become progressively worse the longer a person fails to complete the census and the more directions are issued to them. Jonathan Palmer, the ABS chief operating officer and deputy Australian statistician, said in a statement: \"Australians strongly support the census and the need to enforce penalties is rare. \"The ABS actively seeks the willing cooperation of respondents. However, it is sometimes necessary to use the legislative provisions, in order to maintain the high quality of ABS statistics.\" The chief statistician at the ABS, David Kalisch, told the ABC's 7.30 program on Wednesday it was a matter for the director of public prosecutions if people failed to fill in their name on the census form. \"We would provide some information to the DPP, but in the last census, I think it was less than 100 people were actually prosecuted for not completing the census correctly,\" Kalisch said. \"Australians really love the Census and I look forward to them completing the census on, before or after census night. Labor's Andrew Leigh, the shadow assistant treasurer, criticised the government's handling of the census on Tuesday and said it should \"step up\" and listen to concerns being raised. The small business minister, Michael McCormack, urged Australians to fill out their census and not to engage in a boycott. \"We can assure people that there's never been a breach of the ABS census data,\" he said. \"By retaining names and addresses for longer the ABS will be better able to link the census data to the needs of government.\" The ABS has also reported 14 data breaches voluntarily to the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner. While none relate to the census \u2013 and they demonstrate a proactive approach to reporting breaches \u2013 the disclosures have continued to raise concerns about the handling of personal information.",
  "title": "Hundreds referred for prosecution since 1990 for failure to complete census",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "australia-news/australian-bureau-of-statistics",
    "australia-news/australia-news",
    "australia-news/australian-politics",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "australia-news/census"
  ],
  "lead": "Documents show that there were 327 prosecutions referred by the ABS relating to refusing to answer the census since 1990",
  "id": "australia-news/2016/aug/04/hundreds-referred-for-prosecution-for-failure-to-complete-census",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}