{
  "content": "The question on everyone's mind around lunchtime yesterday was: can I see my house from here? And after that, can I see the house where I grew up? The launch of Google's Street View \u2013 which adds a photographic layer, with 360-degree panoramas, to its Google Maps service \u2013 led to a dramatic leap in use of the site. According to the web metrics company Hitwise, Google Maps UK had its busiest-ever day on Thursday, with visits to Google Maps UK up by 41% \u2013 its busiest day ever. But now that's done, the tougher questions begin. Starting with: how many classic album covers can you recreate? What's the Story Morning Glory by Oasis? Check. Pink Floyd's Animals? Check (minus giant pink flying pig, we regret). We've found Wally. Noted two rather drunk people on Curtain Road in London (though they've now been removed from the system itself). There's a piece of interesting parking and, apparently, a half-buried motorcyclist. All human life is here, including some, ahem, professional women who might interest the police \u2013 though nobody, yet, has been spotted breaking into anyone's house. There are of course celebrities (even with their faces blurred, you can still spot some \u2013 and of course they're keen to talk about it) In the usual crowdsourced way, all the interesting sights have rapidly gained their own Twitter feed (on http://twitter.com/gsightseeing), which is growing apace. There's no doubt that people are becoming obsessed with it \u2013 including some privacy campaigners and the Daily Mail, who have complained respectively that Street View is an invasion of privacy onto \"private residential streets\" and that it's a burglars' charter. Neither quite holds water: the Street View car only travelled on public roads, taking pictures there (with the approval of the information commissioner), and taking pictures in a public place is a right that we ought to defend; and the Metropolitan Police have said they see no appreciable risk from the service. There's a lot of fun to be had in Street View's slightly obsessive-compulsive approach to privacy, which involves blurring faces wherever they are found (using the same algorithm to spot them that it employs in its free Picasa photo-organisation software): a poster for the film How to Lose Friends &amp; Alienate People had its faces, yes, blurred \u2013 but the famous mural of the IRA hunger striker Bobby Sands at the corner of Falls Road and Sevastapol Street in Belfast, which many had said was blurred, was returned to its natural form on Friday. \"We do have some false positives,\" said a Google UK spokesperson. \"We blurred a statue, and the faces of the team painted outside Manchester United's stadium, I think. But people can report it as a concern if they want to and we will unblur the picture.\" Conversely, if you want to go and virtually stand outside Tony Blair's London house in mute protest at his political decisions, then you can: it is still there on the system as of Friday. Plenty of publications have been hauled up in front of the Press Complaints Commission for less. If you needed a vision of how much more powerful Google has become than the media, it is there \u2013 though a Google spokesperson said that anyone who wants to have images of their home removed can apply to the company and it will comply. Scores of people already have, meaning that it is a system in flux: streets or places that were here yesterday are gone tomorrow. What Street View does give us, instead, is twofold. The first is easily seen: it's a picture of a pre-recession halycon land, where you could still \u2013 if you were clever \u2013 get a 100% mortgage, where most banks weren't owned by the government, and there was a national retailer called Woolworths with shops all over the place. They might as well have called it Google Nostalgia. Look, it's summer! Look, the restaurants were busy! Look, that shop that's closed down now has someone going into it! Look, I can plan my trip/scope out the neighbourhood of that new flat/see if there are \u2013 or used to be \u2013 a pizza place nearby! But what's overlooked, and has gone completely unremarked in all the frothy searches for \"funny photos\", is that this is also a masterstroke that tightens Google's near-complete monopoly on how we look for things. The executives at Microsoft and Yahoo, its would-be competitors in the linked fields of web searching and maps, must be grinding their teeth to dust. Microsoft has had 3D maps of cities since May 2007; even Amazon had done something similar. But they have all stumbled. Microsoft, aiming as ever to preserve its own monopoly, required you to download and install its own custom-written software to get its \"Virtual Earth\" view in the browser; Google, by contrast, relies on Adobe's Flash technology, which is already installed in some form on 99% of browsers. Google wins by exploiting someone else's monopoly; Microsoft fails by trying to exploit its own. And Yahoo is a distant third: the company is struggling, having made a loss of $278m (\u00a3192m) on revenues of $1.8bn in its most recent financial quarter. Worse, its new chief executive Carol Bartz has called into question the whole rationale of Yahoo's own maps operation: she prefers Google's. The privacy concerns are essentially unfounded. Google Street View is simply the best way to travel through 25 of Britain's cities \u2013 and it's a certainty that more will be added and that the ultimate aim of the company is to have the whole of the country covered. But while we gain through that, we're also losing something very subtle: any sense of choice about where we go for other forms of searching. Google Street View is a blessing \u2013 but then, we used to think that privately-owned banks were an unalloyed good too.",
  "title": "Google's Street View offers sights and scenes but grows its monopoly",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/google-street-view",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/microsoft",
    "technology/yahoo",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "Google Street View has found Wally, the locations of classic album covers and much more \u2013 but it makes the search engine's monopoly just that bit bigger",
  "id": "technology/2009/mar/20/google-street-view1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}