{
  "content": "The Daily Mirror and the Queen today settled their legal row over revelations obtained by a reporter working undercover as a royal footman, with the newspaper agreeing not publish any further details. In the high court today the Mirror and journalist Ryan Parry agreed to hand over all unpublished photographs and documents and not to syndicate further any material already published. It will also pay \u00a325,000 towards the Queen's legal costs. In return the palace has dropped its breach of privacy claim and agreed that the Daily Mirror will be able to keep all the money it has earned from syndicating the story abroad, which editor Piers Morgan today said ran into six figures. The Mirror can also repeat any of the material from the original stories that appeared on November 19 and 20, apart from reprinting two photographs of the bedrooms of the Duke of York and the Earl and Countess of Wessex. \"We have no wish to intrude any further on the obvious grief those two photographs caused,\" Mr Morgan quipped today, referring to the shots of the private bedrooms of the royals. The original gagging order was obtained last Thursday to prevent the newspaper from publishing further revelations about Parry's employment as a footman in the royal household, which he obtained using false references. Lawyers for the Mirror today said the original stories had made their point about highlighting the flaws in royal security. \"The palace must, by implication, admit that our disclosures were in the public interest because they have dropped their claim for damages for breach of confidence,\" said Marcus Partington, acting for Mirror Group Newspapers. But Jonathan Sumption, acting for the attorney general on behalf of the Queen, warned other publications and individuals thinking of performing a similar sting that the palace would not hesitate to take the hitherto rare step of returning to the courts. \"Although this particular incident can now be treated as closed, the Queen and the royal family are entitled to a proper measure of privacy in their personal lives. They are also entitled to trust those who serve in their households without having to make the corrosive assumption that their confidence may be betrayed at any moment with impunity,\" he said. \"The small minority of people who are not willing to respect even these principles of ordinary human courtesy, must expect that recourse will be had to the courts whenever it is appropriate,\" added Mr Sumption QC, who acted for the government during the Hutton inquiry earlier this year. Morgan said the settlement represented a \"very good day at the office\" for the Mirror. While the paper has agreed to pay \u00a325,000 costs, he said it had scored a victory in being allowed to keep its syndication fees. \"We didn't want to surrender the money we made because this was a legitimate story in the public interest. We consider that quite a major victory,\" said Morgan, who also saw sales soar last week as a result of the scoop. He added that he believed the real intenion of the palace was to avoid any further revelations coming out but said today he \"didn't actually have much more to publish.\" \"We'd done Buckingham Palace and Windsor Castle and we didn't get as far as Sandringham, although of course we could have done,\" he added. The revelations, which caused shock waves around the world, exposed lax royal security vetting procedures. Parry was able to get a job as a royal footman with one fake reference and one real one, provided by a former boss on a mobile phone in a pub. But the palace objected to the personal details obtained by the Mirror, including how the Queen's cornflakes and porridge oats were laid out in Tupperware boxes on her breakfast table, how the Queen's toast was spread lightly with marmalade, and how she ended up feeding most of it to her corgis. Morgan added he was \"delighted\" the Queen had dropped her breach of privacy action. \"This was an important investigation, massively in the public interest, which will lead to a complete overhaul of security around the royal family,\" he said. \"If we had not carried out this investigation then the many flaws in the security system surrounding the royals would not have been exposed. It was necessary to deploy subterfuge to establish how easy it would have been for a terrorist to become a royal footman.\" \"We have no wish to cause any further embarrassment to Her Majesty, or have an ongoing legal battle with the palace. I believe the royal family will in time come to thank Ryan Parry for doing them a favour by exposing very serious lapses in the security system at Buckingham Palace and Windsor Castle,\" said Morgan. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Mirror makes peace with Her Majesty",
  "lead": " The Daily Mirror and the Queen today settled their legal row over revelations by a reporter working undercover as a royal footman, with the newspaper agreeing not publish any further details, reports Owen Gibson",
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "uk/queen"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/nov/24/pressandpublishing.themonarchy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}