{
  "content": "The London-based social media firm Headshift is the first acquisition of Jeffrey Dachis's newly formed Dachis Group. Dachis's former agency, Razorfish, was a huge success with a value of $5.5 billion at the height of the 2000 bubble. With his new company, the entrepreneur plans to invest in the corporate social networking area and will focus on making customer participation a big business: \"Social business is the new way of working, not just new technology.\" Headshift was founded 2003 by Lee Bryant and Livio Hughes, and specialises in social business design. It advises organisations how to transform their traditional infrastructure towards a more open communication approach \u2013 helping what it calls the second-wave adopters. It has worked with clients in the public and private sector, among them the BBC, the Saatchi Gallery and British Airways. Headshift is based in London, but operates worldwide in New York, Paris, Sydney, Rome and Zurich. With the help of the Dachis Group, the founders hope to leave the niche world of enterprise 2.0 behind. Last year, Jeffrey Dachis made a deal with the Texas-based venture capital firm Austin Ventures to build a corporate social networking software and services company, the Dachis Group. It attracted some attention in the business and stirred up a debate on whether companies needed to change how they approached consumers. In the past the internet was driven by companies communicating with an abstract user. When social platforms for private communication evolved, most firms suddenly found themselves needing to catch up \u2013 that is, in the position of second-wave adopters. The forming of the Dachis group and the acquisition of Headshift can be read as a sign that the facebookification of business has begun.",
  "title": "Headshift's deal with Dachis Group brings 'Facebookification' of business to London",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "business/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "business/venture-capital"
  ],
  "lead": "The British social media consultancy Headshift becomes part of a big international venture-capital deal. By Mercedes Bunz",
  "id": "media/pda/2009/sep/02/headshift-dachies-social-network-startup",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}