{
  "content": "Last week, Apple CEO Tim Cook announced the end of Ping, a move that attracted about 1% as much attention as the iPhone 5 announcement. Ping, as you've likely forgotten, is the iTunes social network that sought to capitalize on people's love for music on an Apple-driven platform. Few social sites actually end their audience-less existences, choosing instead to revamp in multiple iterations in an attempt to achieve the billion-dollar glory the peak of the social media pile represents. Witness Friendster, which continues to desperately lop along, somehow evading its inevitable death. And attempts to create a new social media show no signs of wavering; over the weekend, it was reported that the Winklevoss twins, of Facebook litigation fame, are backing a social network exclusively for professional investors. In light of the Winklevii's newest attempt and the closing of Ping and \u2013 though it hardly seems necessary \u2013 to forewarn others, we present the social web's top five cautionary tales: Apple Ping In the iPhone5 conference, Apple announced that the newest addition of iTunes would not include Ping and that it is no longer accepting members in anticipation of its 30 September shut down. Several factors contributed to its failure, with the most costly easily being the failure of Apple to land a deal with Facebook, impeding the most likely to succeed integration of social into the site. This was accompanied by frequent recommendations to purchase music and that overt commercialism quickly drove people away. Cook gave indications of Ping's inevitable death at the All Things Digital conference in the spring: \"We tried Ping, and I think the customer voted and said 'This isn't something that I want to put a lot of energy into.'\" Google Buzz Buzz shuttered its invasive doors on 15 January 2012 after failing to gain a significant audience and facing a major backlash from people who found its default settings that automatically built public contact lists to be a severe privacy invasion. Its death was announced in something preciously referred to as the Fall Sweep, when Google also killed an assortment of other product experiments. Features from the ill-fated Buzz were used in Google's social network revamp, Google+, which you may remember from the last time you logged on to it six months ago. Buzz lasted almost two years after its February 2010 launch, trailing in the wake of another failed Google social site, Wave. Google Wave Wave will long be remembered as the social media tool that was simply too overwhelming for the average computer user. It was an amalgamation of Twitter-like real-time features, collaborative documents and email and chat aggregation that proved too much for the non-techies. Launched in 2009, its end was announced in August 2010, but accounts weren't completely deleted until April 2012. Heralded by online insiders, it was reclaimed by Apache Software who refined it for use among a more selective audience. Yahoo Buzz Back in 2008, Yahoo attempted to pioneer their own social news site that aggregated news in a StumbleUpon-like fashion, hoping to use the successful site to drive traffic to their site. Thanks to the traffic boost from being a Yahoo-associated entity, the site performed well, at one point generating more monthly unique visitors than competitor Digg. The site failed to retain strong audience numbers and was shuttered in April 2011 to \"streamline\" business operations. Wal-Mart's the Hub In an unfortunate attempt to emulate the social network turned over-used-punchline MySpace, Wal-Mart introduced a social page pitched to young adults called the Hub in 2006. As the most explicitly commercially motivated social site, it had little chance to succeed. It also violated some of the key tenets of successful social media, by keeping parents informed of their children's use of the site and by limiting the ability of users to contact each other. During the Hub's short three-month lifespan, its 91,000 monthly unique visitors barely touched the 55.8m of the soon-to-be irrelevant MySpace.",
  "title": "As Apple cans Ping, five other notable deaths in the social media world",
  "lead": "Ping heads off to the great social network in the sky, and we look back at once-buzzed-about startups that suddenly stopped",
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/itunes",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/google-wave",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/google-plus",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/wal-mart",
    "technology/startups"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/us-news-blog/2012/sep/17/apple-ping-social-media-deaths",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}