{
  "content": "It was surprising \u2013 shocking in a way that the best news stories are \u2013 to discover that surface-to-air missiles are to be sited on rooftops around the Olympic complex as part of a security plan. There was added spice in the manner in which the affected residents discovered the plan \u2013 a Ministry of Defence leaflet posted through the doors of their flats in a gated apartment complex in east London. Brian Whelan, a resident and also a journalist, alerted the press last month after he picked up the leaflet, which explained, in a military pastiche of an estate agent's language: \"The location has been chosen as it is situated close to the Olympic Park and offers an excellent view of the surrounding area and the entire sky above the Olympic Park. The top of the tower also offers a flat, uncluttered and safe area from which to operate.\" Whelan was not convinced. When an army officer accompanied by an MoD press officer came to a public meeting at the flats on Tuesday 1 May, Mr Whelan was on hand with his iPhone to video the men talking to other residents. He also had an exchange with the MoD press officer, the film of which he published on his website at www.brianwhelan.net and on YouTube, where it can still be viewed. The video was spotted by the Guardian's multimedia news editor, who was out of the office. He asked a video producer to get permission from Whelan for the Guardian to host the video and, following his consent, it went up on the site on the morning of Wednesday 2 May. By lunchtime that day the MoD had complained to the Guardian's newsdesk that the press officer had been there as an observer rather than as a spokesman, that he had not been given time to respond properly to Whelan's questions, and that he had been filmed covertly. Moreover, any information he had given was freely available, not least at a full MoD press conference held on 2 May. After a formal request from the MoD, the film was taken down pending further investigation. Whelan denies that he filmed the press officer covertly and says that he also announced himself as a journalist to the press officer at some point. This situation raises some interesting \u2013 and not entirely clearcut \u2013 issues. Was the video shot covertly? Was the information in the public interest? Does it make a difference that the resident with the camera is a journalist? There is an obvious public-interest argument for a story relating to the siting of missiles in a residential area. But clause 10, sub-section ii, of the editors' code of practice overseen by the Press Complaints Commission states: \"Engaging in misrepresentation or subterfuge, including by agents or intermediaries, can generally be justified only in the public interest and then only when the material cannot be obtained by other means.\" And a crucial part of the Guardian's editorial code states: \"Journalists should generally identify themselves as GNM employees when working on a story \u2026 This applies to anything we publish, including any information obtained by the subterfuge of others.\" That last sentence is important as the Guardian is hosting a growing amount of material \u2013 broadly user-generated content that has not been commissioned by the Guardian. Whelan is adamant that, because he held his iPhone up to his chest to make his recording, it would have been clear to the press officer that he was being filmed. However, the MoD says he did not know the recording was taking place, and it is not obvious from the video that he knows he is being filmed. He confirms he is an MoD spokesman, and says it is the first time he has been to the estate and that he is not a Londoner. He also says that consultations with the local authorities about the missiles have been going on for around four months. I have viewed the film and I can't see or hear that the MoD representative reveals anything that would not have been disclosed at the following day's press conference. Therefore we have a film taken by a journalist who happens to be a resident which is contentious because there is a strong disagreement about whether it was covertly filmed or not. The film will stay down. Public interest arguments must be strong to succeed, and on balance I decided that this case wasn't necessarily strong enough to succeed should the MoD decide to make a formal complaint to the PCC. In fairness, the MoD did not threaten that course of action. But you have to pick your disagreements, and The Editors' Codebook, which spells out how the PCC code works in practice, reminds editors that they must \"take care to ensure that contributors' material has been obtained in compliance with the code\".",
  "title": "The readers' editor on\u2026 the\u00a0ethics of using covertly obtained material | Chris Elliott",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/theguardian",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "uk/ministry-of-defence",
    "media/olympicsandthemedia",
    "uk/london",
    "uk/uk",
    "sport/olympic-games"
  ],
  "lead": "Chris Elliott: Open door: The filming of an MoD spokesman at a meeting about the siting of missiles on a block of flats raises some interesting issues",
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/may/13/ethics-using-covertly-obtained-material",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}