{
  "content": "A security services watchdog, Sir Mark Waller, has been summoned to appear before MPs after he repeatedly refused to appear to answer their questions over the Edward Snowden leaks and other counter-terrorism issues. Waller, who is the intelligence services commissioner, has refused to appear before the Commons home affairs select committee in a rare clash over the parliamentary accountability of Britain's intelligence agencies. The summons was issued at midday on Thursday and is a rare move by a parliamentary committee which has the power to send for people and papers. The order to appear on 18 March was approved without a vote on the committee. Waller is one of two former senior judges charged with the oversight of the security services, including MI5, MI6 and GCHQ, which have been at the centre of disclosures over the US National Security Agency's mass digital surveillance programmes. The other retired judge, Sir Anthony May, is responsible specifically for oversight of the interception capabilities of the security services. He told the committee earlier that the 570,000 requests a year for communications data by public authorities was \"possibly too large\". Keith Vaz, the chairman of the committee, said: \"The intelligence services commissioner plays a vital role in keeping under review the way in which the home secretary and the intelligence services use the powers which they have been granted by parliament. This function was conferred on the commissioner by act of parliament, and Sir Mark must be accountable to parliament for the way in which he carries them out. \"Both the information commissioner and the interception of communications commissioner have accepted invitations to give evidence to the committee in the last few weeks. We do not see why the intelligence services commissioner should be any different and the committee was disappointed by his refusal to attend. \"Sir Mark has referred us to his published report. While the information in this report is useful to the committee, effective parliamentary scrutiny requires the opportunity to ask questions and receive full answers. \"We have therefore taken the unusual step of summoning Sir Mark. This happens only very rarely, where an essential witness declines to appear in response to an invitation. Indeed, it is the only time that this committee has summoned a witness in this parliament,\" he said. The clash comes a fortnight after the Labour leader, Ed Miliband, called for a major overhaul of the oversight of Britain's intelligence services, including reform of the commissioners' roles as part of his campaign against \"unaccountable power\".",
  "title": "MPs summon security services watchdog over Snowden leaks",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/uksecurity",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/espionage",
    "uk/mi5",
    "uk/mi6",
    "uk/gchq",
    "us-news/nsa",
    "us-news/us-national-security",
    "us-news/the-nsa-files",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "politics/politics"
  ],
  "lead": "Sir Mark Waller, intelligence services commissioner, has repeatedly refused to address home affairs select committee",
  "id": "uk-news/2014/feb/27/mps-summon-security-services-watchdog-mark-waller-snowden",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}