{
  "content": "Why do some things go viral? It's a question that has vexed marketers, advertisers, and social media professionals for years. Some pieces of content make the most emailed list while others languish in obscurity. Why? What makes some things succeed while others fail? Effective social media hinges on creating content people share. Facebook and Twitter are technologies, not strategies. You have to understand why people share some things rather than others, otherwise there is a danger of just confusing activity for productivity. Just a few years ago, if you asked Google \"what makes things viral?\" the answer you got back was simple: it's luck. No one can predict what will go viral and what won't. You might as well buy a lottery ticket was the cut and thrust of it. That's a great (and popular) theory \u2013 the only thing is, based on 10 years of academic research, it's completely wrong. The science of viral social media content There's actually a science behind why people share some things rather than others. It's known as a psychology of social transmission. We've analysed thousands of pieces of online content and tens of thousands of products and brands to understand why some things make the most emailed list and why some things get more word of mouth. Again and again we saw the same six key STEPPS to crafting contagious content: Social Currency, Triggers, Emotion, Public, Practical Value, and Stories. Here are two of the key strains in viral social media content in more detail: Social Currency The better something makes people look, the more likely they'll be to pass it on. Recently, LinkedIn sent an email out to some of their users: \"Congratulations,\" it said, \"you have one of the top 5% most viewed LinkedIn profiles for 2012\". It felt good to be part of that special group, sure, but the recipients did more than just pat themselves on the back. They shared the good news with their friends and thousands took to Facebook and Twitter to spread the word about their new-found status. Why did people share this information? Simple; it made them look good. Just like the car we drive and the clothes we wear, the content we share on social media affects how other people perceive us. It's Social Currency. Plus, people like being the first to share information because it makes them seem cool and in-the-know. By making people feel like insiders, LinkedIn got people talking about its brand. People couldn't share their new-found status without making LinkedIn part of the conversation, which helped LinkedIn spread and grow their user base. Triggers A few years ago, Nasa landed a rover on the surface of planet Mars. It was an epic undertaking, requiring millions in funding and years of effort. When the rover finally touched down on rocky Martian landscape, and the rover slowly rolled onto the dusty, barren ground, the world cheered. It was a momentous achievement. Media outlets clamored to cover the story and millions of people buzzed about the news. NASA was, of course, ecstatic. But at the same time, another organisation enjoyed some unexpected success: global confectioner, Mars. Over the same period that Mars the planet was in the news, Mars the chocolate bar saw a (perhaps surprising) uptick in sales. While Mars the company is named after the company's founder, Franklin Mars, not the planet, media attention on Nasa's Mars landing pushed the chocolate bar front of mind. It was like a little reminder to make people think about, talk about, and purchase the product. Top-of-mind means tip-of-the-tongue. As explored in my book Contagious: Why Things Catch On, Social Currency and Triggers are just two of the six strains to the DNA of viral content. While no one can guarantee your piece of content will receive 10m views, it is also not random why people share some pieces of content over others; there is a science behind it. From the Ice Bucket Challenge to What Does the Fox Say, the same six drivers shape what goes viral. By understanding that science and interpreting it for your own brand, you can make your own social media content far more likely to catch on. Jonah Berger is a Professor at the Wharton School and author of the New York Times bestseller Contagious: Why Things Catch On.",
  "title": "The DNA of Viral Content",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/linkedin",
    "science/nasa",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "Many social media marketers consider viral content to be an art rather than a science \u2013 but are they right?",
  "id": "media/2014/sep/15/the-dna-of-viral-content",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}