{
  "content": "Concerns about Facebook threats to adopted children are being raised again as children adopted because of abuse and neglect are still being contacted out of the blue by their birth parents. The decision to remove a child is, in my experience, not taken lightly, but made with the aim of changing a child's likely developmental trajectory for the better in the midst of deeply sad family circumstances. Children are often fostered, with varying levels of contact with their birth family. For a child to be adopted with a no-contact order suggests there has been a high level of abuse and a demonstrable lack of ability to change. The laws around removal of a child are based on the principle elucidated in the Munro review that \"the family is usually the best place for bringing up children and young people, but difficult judgments are sometimes needed in balancing the right of a child to be with their birth family with their right to protection from abuse and neglect\". This principle is backed up by research literature on attachment: the specific relationship between caregiver and child, which is important for a child's social and emotional development and normally, should be maintained, not disrupted. However, in situations where the child is abused or neglected, their attachment to that caregiver often becomes disturbed, with severe and far-reaching consequences for the child's present state and later wellbeing. Leaving a child for too long in an abusive home situation has dire effects. A prospective longitudinal study commissioned by the previous government highlighted that if sufficient change in parental behaviours is going to occur this usually happens before an infant is six months old. Despite this knowledge, the study showed that children are often left in the home for much longer, vulnerable to continuing abuse and demonstrating more evident developmental and behavioural difficulties \"often whilst professionals waited fruitlessly for parents to change\". The adoptive family environment is hopefully in itself a therapeutic intervention, providing children with consistent, loving caregiving and an example of interpersonal relationships which prioritise their needs. Childhood for children seems to stretch on for ever, but in reality these children have a relatively brief window of opportunity to develop in a safe and supportive environment. Unprompted, unplanned contact intrudes into this safety. It is understandable that a parent would want to contact their child. Abusive parents often do not set out to be abusive, may themselves be subject to significant personal adversity and indeed often find it hard to even acknowledge the harm they have done. But contact needs to be established with the needs of the child as paramount, not the needs of a parent. The difficulty with unscreened internet contact is that there is no other adult checking the communication. Most straightforwardly, communication might be predatory. More common and more complex, the communication might be well-meaning but ill thought through, leaving the child vulnerable to confusing and overwhelming emotions. Unsolicited contact is likely to prompt guilt and self-recrimination in the child, because children tend to blame themselves for abuse and family separation. I don't know what the answer is to safeguard adopted children on Facebook, but the issue flags up the need for the law and clinical practice to keep pace. Contact has a massive potential impact on a child's chances of overcoming some of the most adverse circumstances that are possible. In these cases the standard prototype of parent-child relationship cannot be relied on. The ideas most of us have of \"parenting\" do not apply in the same way. The meaning of contact from the birth parent needs to be carefully explored with each individual child and re-evaluated as they grow and change in order to even stand a chance of getting it right. And those explorations should now probably also consider planning for the potential of internet interaction.",
  "title": "How can adopted children be safeguarded in the Facebook age? | Lucy Maddox",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "society/adoption",
    "society/childprotection",
    "technology/facebook",
    "society/children",
    "society/society",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "law/family-law"
  ],
  "lead": "Lucy Maddox: When birth parents contact their children using social networking it may not be predatory, but it's not in the children's best interests",
  "id": "global/2012/jan/06/adopted-children-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}