{
  "content": "If you want to enlighten yourself about how the internet is revolutionising the way people and business operate, then there is a dizzying array of fascinating books to help you. From Thomas Friedman's The World is Flat through Chris Anderson's The Long Tail to the latest, and arguably most interesting, Wikinomics (by Don Tapscott and Anthony D Williams), they share a number of characteristics. They are virtually all written by North Americans who are journalists or academics, not practitioners. They are mainly reflective of what is going on, rather than prescriptive and they rarely tell you how an individual can profit from the fundamental changes that are taking place. Even when they are written by business people with a track record, they don't necessarily provide a do-it-yourself kit for aspiring entrepreneurs. See, for instance, John Reese's The Rebirth of Internet Marketing, which contains such homilies as \"publishing killer content is absolutely required\" or \"video itself kicks the crap out of plain text or just audio\". Thanks for that. The reason these books are chroniclers rather than instigators of change is that this revolution did not start at Harvard Business School. It is happening because of an unprecedented grassroots movement as individuals the world over collaborate using the web. Not even the creators of sites such as MySpace, Facebook, Wikipedia or YouTube had any idea how successful they would become when they started. Even the giant survivors of the original dotcom boom such as Google and Yahoo! have been forced to buy upstart companies like YouTube and Flickr because their own social networks couldn't compete. Most of these books are compelling reading even where they appear to be contradictory. Should we trust to our instant intuitive judgment (as Malcolm Gladwell's \"blink\" urges us to) or should we rely on James Surowiecki's The Wisdom of Crowds, which powerfully argues to the effect that asking the audience on Who Wants to Be a Millionaire will mostly beat the opinions of experts. We are not told, however, what a CEO should do if his or her intuitive judgment is at odds with crowd wisdom. But that presumes that people actually act out the advice of these authors rather than just use them as bedtime therapy. The World is Flat is worth reading for its wealth of examples about how the new global economy is levelling out employment and other opportunities - as long as you can stomach the endless repetition of the book's title, as if the author thinks he has discovered the equivalent of E=mc2. The Long Tail remains an essential read even though some of the statistics of the first edition have been challenged by fact-checking bloggers. It is an excellent analysis of how the new internet economy works in favour of the millions of old and minority music tracks (or books, or whatever) now available to a huge market of specialist buyers thanks to the wonders of digital storage. Recently, more in hope than expectation, I looked up an obscure Elizabethan play on the internet only to find that someone had scanned in the original text and was selling it as a paperback: the long tail in action. Wikinomics shows how enlightened corporations are opening their activities, including secret research, to anyone willing to collaborate because of the synergistic benefits it generates. The first chapter (which can be read at wikinomics.com) points out that in the arts, culture, science, education and government \"billions of connected individuals can now actively participate in innovation, wealth creation, and social development in ways we once only dreamed of\". Such options offer unfathomable possibilities, not least for the poorest countries if global cooperation on, say, construction of a basic dwelling could be harnessed to their advantage. But the excitement of corporate collaboration is so at odds with the get-rich-quick culture of our boardrooms that one wonders how long it will be before the penny drops. vic.keegan@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Victor Keegan: Who's writing the book of the net?",
  "lead": "Many of those who write about how the internet is revolutionising the way people and business operate are journalists or academics, not practitioners, says Victor Keegan",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/youtube",
    "technology/wikipedia",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2007/sep/06/comment.internet",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}