{
  "content": "I'm lucky when it comes to my profile picture on Facebook, Flickr and Twitter \u2013 I have a great photo by our award-winning photographer Dan Chung of me in my beloved pork pie hat. How much does your profile picture or avatar matter? It's hard to say, and not all social networks are alike. It may matter a great deal to a potential client on professionally focused networks such as LinkedIn, and it may mean a lot if you're trying to find a date on Facebook. Some people have had professional photographers take headshots for their profile picture, especially to use on dating sites. Sh\u00e9a Bennett, who blogs at Twittercism, asked his more than 3,000 followers how much another user's avatar mattered to them and found that only 5% didn't care at all, although 38% didn't care much unless it was the default picture. A majority, 58%, wanted to see a picture of a real person. If you'd like to literally cut your ex out of the picture or simply get a tighter close-up, there are a number of services that will do the trick. For instance, mypictr.com allows you to either upload a picture or choose one from a number of social networking sites and crop it to the desired size. If you want to make a cartoon-like avatar that will work on Twitter and many social networking sites, there are a number of sites for creating your own custom image. If you use Yahoo, it has a personalised profile avatar service, and faceyourmanga.com took Twitter by storm with a similar way to create your own avatar. Of course, if you want to show your love for your favourite television show, South Park Studios has its own avatar maker so you can look like a resident of the famous cartoon city. If you feel more at home in Springfield, you can create your own Simpsons avatar. The latest craze on Twitter is Twibbons, a little banner on your profile picture that allow you to show your support for the Iranian opposition, the NHS, etc. In addition to political causes, they have Twibbons to show your support for your favourite band, musician, actor or gadget. The avatar creators can take a little time if you want the image to look like you. However, they are a fun way to personalise your presence on your favourite social networking site. Kevin Anderson",
  "title": "Tools of the trade: Profile pictures",
  "lead": "How much does your profile picture or avatar matter? It's hard to say, and not all social networks are alike",
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2009/sep/21/profile-pictures-tools-of-trade",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}