{
  "content": "The Daily Mirror today heralded its court of appeal win against Naomi Campbell as \"a victory for the freedom of the press\" and a \"wake-up call to all celebrities queueing up to take on the media\". The appeal court found Ms Campbell had waived her rights to confidential treatment at a drugs clinic because she had lied so blatantly about her drug habits in previous press interviews. It said the Mirror was justified in publishing a photograph of her leaving a Narcotics Anonymous clinic with details of her treatment because it was necessary verification of its story. \"We consider that the detail that was given, and indeed the photographs, were a legitimate, if not an essential, part of the journalistic package designed to demonstrate that Ms Campbell had been deceiving the public when she said that she did not take drugs,\" the court said about the paper's article, which appeared in February 2001. The appeal court said the expose was justified to give credibility to its reports that Ms Campbell had previously lied to the media about her drug problem. \"It was part of a journalistic package that was reasonable to publish in the public interest,\" said the judges in their ruling. The judges added that although the Mirror's barrister, Desmond Browne, had \"not succeeded in persuading us that dishonesty is a necessary requirement for an individual to be held liable for breach of confidence in relation to publication of information about a person's private life, he has persuaded us that the judgement given in Ms Campbell's favour for breach of confidence must be set aside.\" Their ruling was immediately seized upon as vindication for the Mirror's original report and a blow to Ms Campbell, who has been left with a bill of between \u00a3650,000 and \u00a3750,000. \"If you lie to the public through the media, particularly if you lie for commercial advantage, then the media will be entitled to correct that false impression and will be given considerable latitude by the courts in how they do that,\" said the Mirror Group solicitor, Marcus Partington. And the Daily Mirror editor, Piers Morgan, said: \"This is a wake-up call to all celebrities queuing up to take on the media.\" He was speaking after three judges overturned an earlier high court ruling that the Mirror had gone too far in revealing intimate details of Ms Campbell's drugs treatment after picturing her leaving a Narcotics Anonymous meeting. In March the high court ruled that this constituted a breach of confidentiality laws and awarded the model \u00a32,500 in damages. However, the appeal judges said today: \"The article... was justified in order to provide a factual account of Miss Campbell's drug addiction that had the detail necessary to carry credibility. Provided that publication of particular confidential information is justifiable in the public interest, the journalist must be given reasonable latitude as to the manner in which that information is conveyed to the public.\" Master of the Rolls Lord Phillips, together with Lords Justices Chadwick and Keene, refused Ms Campbell permission to appeal to the House of Lords, although her lawyers said later they would petition the Law Lords for a hearing. The high court ruling in March raised fears that a privacy law could be introduced to the UK by the back door - Ms Campbell's case relied on the existing confidentiality law, which guarantees privacy in relation to medical treatment.",
  "title": "Mirror hails 'victory for press freedom'",
  "lead": "4.30pm update: The Daily Mirror today heralded its court of appeal win against Naomi Campbell as  a \"wake-up call to all celebrities queuing up to take on the media\". By Dan Milmo",
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/press-freedom",
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/world",
    "uk/uk",
    "fashion/models",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy",
    "fashion/naomi-campbell"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2002/oct/14/pressandpublishing.privacy3",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}