{
  "content": "The Office for National Statistics (ONS) is proposing that the once-a-decade census, which began in 1801, be replaced by a more fluid questionnaire. This would survey smaller samples of the population every year, in part to avoid statistical surprises such as the unexpectedly big population growth uncovered by the 2011 census. Under the proposal \u2013 one of two ideas mooted after the last full census in 2011 \u2013 a changing group of 4% of the population of England and Wales would complete census questionnaires every 12 months, with their answers added to existing national data, such as employment and health records, to create an accurate statistical snapshot. Government data used for census purposes would first be anonymised to protect confidential details. The annual system would be cheaper and more flexible, but would deprive future historians and genealogists of the complete national snapshot provided by a full census. The ONS has begun a public consultation over whether to adopt this system or maintain the existing comprehensive census. One of the main arguments for the annual model would be to avoid errors that can creep into population estimates. The 2011 census discovered 480,000 more people than expected \u2013 the result of higher immigration and birth rates. However, even if the current system were to be retained, the 2021 census would look somewhat different from 2011's, with the default option being for forms to be filled in online. Two years ago every household was sent a paper form with the option of using the internet to complete it, with about 10m households doing this. In the 2021 census, the ONS expects at least 65% of households to use the internet. Those not connected to the internet would be able to use postal forms or give answers verbally on the doorstep to field workers. Census findings are a tool to help governments allocate spending and plan ahead. The smaller annual survey would identify demographic and social trends more quickly but would be less detailed and comprehensive. Census data are released publicly after a century, and are a key resource for people researching family trees. Two of the nine questions in the ONS consultation cover this specific point, asking what historic research advantages the full census brings and whether moving to the annual system would prove a significant disadvantage for future genealogical studies. Cost is also an issue. The 2011 census cost \u00a3480m; in 2021, the cost would be expected to be \u00a3800m if the same, paper-based system were used. A predominantly online full census would, in contrast, cost about \u00a3625m in 2021, the ONS predicts, while the annual sample system would work out at about \u00a3460m every 10 years. Glen Watson, director general of the ONS, said the annual option \u2013 which would combine the survey responses with data from the health and education services, the Department for Work and Pensions and Revenue &amp; Customs \u2013 marked the \"more radical departure\". \"It would be re-using that data to create a population count that would give accurate statistics down at fairly low levels of geography, but supplemented by an ongoing annual survey that would fill in some of the rich details that the census has traditionally given us,\" he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. He rejected the idea that this would, in effect, spell the end for the census as a complete snapshot of the nation: \"Both approaches are developments of the census. Census is a word that just means counting everyone in the population, and there are different approaches you can use. \"Some countries in the world have gone down this route of re-using administrative data, some countries in the world still do a very traditional, paper-based census, and there are models in between. After every census we look at the technology, we look at the opportunities, we look at the benefits and the costs, and we come up with the best approach for the future. And that's what we're doing.\"",
  "title": "Census will be replaced by annual survey if ONS proposal is approved",
  "lead": "Office for National Statistics begins public consultation on switch from 10-yearly national survey to smaller ones done every year",
  "tags": [
    "uk/census",
    "uk/uk",
    "uk/office-for-national-statistics",
    "world/population",
    "world/world",
    "uk/immigration",
    "politics/politics",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/communities",
    "society/society"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "uk-news/2013/sep/23/census-annual-survey-ons-plans",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}