{
  "content": "A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team Playing with privilege: the invisible benefits of gaming while male | Polygon One of the luxuries of being a member of the dominant group is that the benefits afforded us often remain invisible to us. This blindness allows many men to remain blissfully unaware of what roughly half of all gamers experience on a daily basis. We have been taught and socialized not to see it and to think of our own experiences as universal. Sadly least likely to be read by those who most need to read it. Taming the Digital Wild West - NYTimes.com Uber may also have run afoul of New York State laws against price gouging, which do serve the public interest. In the last year, in bad weather, Uber charged New Yorkers as much as eight times the company's base price. New York's Attorney General writes in the NYT's opinion pages that Uber's surge pricing may be illegal. Is Uber disrupting out-dated regulations, or just breaking the law? Supreme Court Justices Are Not Good With Computers | five-tweet-thoughts When it comes down to it, everyone who's anyone inside that courtroom is most likely an incompetent Luddite. There's no point even putting them in an ordered list, except to be arbitrarily unkind to Scalia and/or Thomas by putting them in the bottom. And while making fun of the Supreme Court is a paradigmatic example of punching up, this particular form is not just fruitless, it's ill-informed. A major court case in the US Supreme Court at the moment concerns Aereo, an odd little firm which uses thousands of tiny aerials to rebroadcast free-to-air TV over the internet. Needless to say, lawsuits followed; and, perhaps also needless to say, America's highest court is not covering itself in glory. Reddit Ousts Technology Subreddit from Front Page - Digits - WSJ We decided to remove /r/technology from the default list because the moderation team lost focus of what they were there to do: moderate effectively. Reddit looks like a chaotic free-for-all, but the staff at the company actually pay close attention to what is happening on their site - particularly if it's on a default subreddit, one of the ones shown to logged-out users. There's nothing they want less than to be giving tacit approval to people who don't deserve it. As phone subsidies fade, Apple could be hurt &gt;&gt; WSJ.com AT&amp;T, which reports first-quarter results Tuesday, sold 15% of its smartphones without a subsidy in the fourth quarter. UBS analyst John Hodulik estimates that figure will rise to 35% this year. \"We actually think that the industry is at a place where you can actually see line of sight to the subsidy equation just fundamentally changing in a very short period of time,\" AT&amp;T Chief Executive Randall Stephenson said at an investor conference last month. The fast adoption of subsidy-free plans is setting up a real world test of consumer behavior: Will Americans continue to buy expensive phones if they are aware of the full price they are paying? Deflation looms for phone pricing. Great news for buyers. Bad news for Samsung: 85% of people in Philippines willing to buy homegrown smartphone brands Smartphone adoption in the Philippines is growing faster in Asia than anywhere else \u2013 a reported 75% year-on-year increase in mobile shipments last year proves that. According to a recent survey conducted by rewards platform Jana, this growth is being fuelled not by big names like Samsung but by the increasing demand of homegrown smartphone brands in the country. The Philippines' top three homegrown smartphone brands are Cherry Mobile, MyPhone, and Starmobile \u2013 all of which offer low-cost Android-based smartphones, as well as Android tablets and a wide variety of feature phones too. Jana's survey shows that 85% of respondents in the Philippines are happy to buy from a local smartphone brand. You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free Delicious service.",
  "title": "Boot up: Aereo vs Broadcasters, Uber vs New York, Samsung vs Philippines, and more",
  "lead": "Plus male privilege, bad moderators, and Apple dealing with subsidies.",
  "tags": [
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/reddit",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/blog/2014/apr/24/boot-up-aereo-vs-broadcasters-uber-vs-new-york-samsung-vs-philippines-and-more",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}