{
  "content": "An MP suddenly named Ryan Giggs as the prominent footballer who had obtained an injunction to prevent the media from reporting his fling with a former Big Brother contestant. The MP cannot be named, by me at least, since he is, prima facie, guilty of a breach of parliamentary convention, if not the law. He is also a family man, and a self-admitted \"love rat\". My ruling is that he has suffered enough and it would not be in the public interest, or in his and his family's interest, for me to name him and so expose him to further abuse. The MP stood up during a brief session devoted to injunctions and the privacy law. The attorney general, Dominic Grieve, had already announced there would be a committee of both houses devoted to the matter. This is the government's usual way of saying \"shut up, will you, while we try to work something out\". John Prescott \u2013 sorry, m'lord Prescott \u2013 sat in the gallery alternately scowling and laughing. John Whittingdale, who chairs the culture, media and sport committee, said you would need to be living in an igloo not to know the name of the footballer; there was, he said, a real danger of making the law an ass. (Some might think it was already too late to fret about that.) David Davis was worried because last week's report by the master of the rolls (not the man who chose Lord Irvine's famously expensive wallpaper, but the chief civil judge in the country)seemed to imply that injunctions should apply to parliament as well as to the media. Grieve made it clear that nothing would affect parliamentary privilege. But he didn't promise that the media could report what was said. This would be truly weird and a politician's worst nightmare; MPs could use the rules to expose wrongdoing but no one else could know about their zealous work. Unless they used Twitter. Then came the moment. I was slightly surprised that the Speaker called the MP, who I can reveal sits for a Midlands constituency and isn't exactly the hunkiest he-man in the House, not that that narrows the field much, frankly. The MP has form, and has tried to break injunctions before. But if he had not been called, he would have barged in on a point of order later, so perhaps Mr Bercow had no choice. The MP rose to say that about 75,000 people had named Ryan Giggs on Twitter. \"It is obviously impractical to imprison them all, and with reports that Giles Coren also faces imprisonment...\" The Speaker leapt up. The thought of Giles Coren's Prison Feasts, a 13-part series on BBC 1, was too much. He slapped the MP down, saying these occasions were for discussing principles, \"not seeking to flout, for whatever purpose!\" We were shocked. Mr Bercow had used a transitive verb without an object. Can parliament sink any lower? We were left to ponder the true meaning of these events. Rich footballer has affair \u2013 two days' wonder in the tabloids. Rich footballer spends a fortune to conceal affair \u2013 this one will run for years.",
  "title": "Rule-breaking love rat MP lets cat out of bag",
  "lead": "During a brief session devoted to injunctions the individual broke ranks and breached parliamentary convention, if not the law",
  "tags": [
    "politics/politics",
    "politics/houseofcommons",
    "politics/dominicgrieve",
    "law/law",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "politics/2011/may/23/rule-breaking-mp-injunctions-session",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}