{
  "content": "What have Barack Obama, Andy Murray, Downing Street and Britney Spears got in common? Not a lot. Except they all use twitter.com as a means of instant communication. Twittering is on a roll, even being mentioned on primetime television. Wherever I go in the social-networking community, it is rampant - everyone seems to be exchanging short messages about anything from breakfast, breaking news, a new website, to participating in a conference remotely. Israel used it as part of its Gaza war propaganda machine. For my colleagues in Technology Guardian, it has become almost a life-support machine. Yet when I move out into the rest of the world, hardly anyone has even heard of it. So what's going on? The main reason is that, despite growing exponentially, it is still a minority sport - even though, highly unusually, the government and MPs (see tweetminster.co.uk) have embraced the new technology early on in the cycle. Companies are latching on to the search facilities at Twitter to find out what people think of them. Twitter doesn't give figures. The twitter.grader.com monitoring site says there were almost 1.1 million users at the time of writing, including those like me with multiple accounts. Other estimates put it at well over 5 million. When I first signed up nearly two years ago, it felt a bit like early reaction to the Flickr photo site: an innocent pleasure, but not really me. You could enter up to 140 characters about what you were doing at that moment, such as drinking coffee. Others could click a button to \"follow\" all your tweets and you could follow theirs. Since then, like Flickr, Twitter has evolved into a sophisticated community with specialised segments. It is one of the easiest websites to get started on. Simply type your name, user name, password and email, and retype some hieroglyphics for security. You are ready to go. Then the complications start. You can follow as many people as you want. It looks like a jungle, but a process of evolution is at work so that groups of like-minded people coalesce together commenting on new websites, breaking news and asking for help when needed. If followers play rough you can eject (block) them. You can't post photos, but you can link to them (twitpic.com). An ecosystem has already grown up around Twitter (see our top 100 websites here), enabling you to search for subjects or people or news (eg Gaza) or to ensure the latest tweets on chosen subjects appear on your screen through monitter.com or tweetdeck.com. It differs from texting as it is a broadcast medium, not a one-to-one. It is free - as long as you have an unlimited data plan if using a mobile - and it enables networking in a way that SMS never could. There are already complaints that, like early criticism of Facebook, it could affect productivity if employees are on it half the day. But many find it helps them with work even though it stretches into private time. There has already been a drift away from SMS and Facebook by early Twitter adopters. Those who criticise use of Twitter at work haven't seen the tectonic plates moving. Social networks such as these are the way businesses will be run in the future. The trouble is that most firms, probably the ones that objected to email in its early stages, don't get this at all. I hear of some applicants who play down their social-networking skills to interviewers because they think it would count against them. Will it go mainstream? Almost certainly, yes. As Wi-Fi, smartphones and unlimited-data tariffs become standard, Twitter will at least provide a free texting service. At best it, or a successor, could over time become a social network for practically everyone on the planet. This is the sort of service that could go ballistic in a recession. vic.keegan@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Victor Keegan on the Twitter phenomenon",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": "Victor Keegan: What have Barack Obama, Andy Murray, Downing Street and Britney Spears got in common? Not a lot. Except they all use twitter.com as a means of instant communication",
  "id": "technology/2009/jan/29/twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}