{
  "content": "During the Belgium v USA game on 1 July, noting the physical resemblance between the Belgian striker Kevin De Bruyne and the fourth in line to the throne, I tweeted \"Prince Harry's having a 'mare\" and sat back to congratulate myself on my originality. What I ought to have known is that others were having precisely the same thought and many of them were tweeting it. That's social media for you: homogeneity that feels like individuality. I later found I was in good company. In California, Modern Family star Eric Stonestreet made the connection and tweeted it, as did thousands of sofa-bound observers all over the world. Staff in Twitter's World Cup war room in San Francisco who were watching how the social media traffic shadowed every moment of the action, measured in TPM (tweets per minute) during the games, rising to TPS (tweets per second) during penalty shoot-outs, noticed Prince Harry was starting to trend. This World Cup could have been designed for Twitter \u2013 it's the perfect conduit for mutterings. In the US it's been pointed out that it may do for soccer what radio did for baseball, allowing fringe supporters such as Stonestreet and millions of other Americans a way to come closer to the fire. As a tournament the World Cup provides the perfect mix of low-engagement incidents within a high-engagement event. In its group stages it has lots of matches where the majority of people watching don't particularly care who wins. That makes them relaxed enough to turn to their second screen and knock out pithy observations about a player's haircut or simply to satisfy their curiosity about what's going in the match. When Luis Suarez took a piece out of Giorgio Chiellini, Twitter traffic confirmed what had occurred before the commentary did. This is a challenge for TV coverage of sports. The things it could say it often doesn't dare say. For a long time it's been the case that the commentators are so wrapped up in reading out pre-planned purple prose that they often miss things that are taking place on the pitch before their very eyes. In the past they could get away with it, but now they're competing with thousands of expert observers who are searching for every detail, who've spotted James Rodriguez looking over his shoulder and lining up his epic shot at the same time as the pundits have. Furthermore, commentators often seem so wedded to their chosen narratives that they appear to be describing something that the pictures contradict. When Brazil and Croatia were lining up in the tunnel prior to the first game, the commentator talked about \"the unbearable pressure\" the players were under. It didn't look that way. It wasn't until halfway through the tournament that Rio Ferdinand mentioned that most of the players lining up looked perfectly relaxed and were smiling as they discussed Ferraris with club colleagues in the opposing team, something which had been apparent from the beginning to anyone who'd been watching from home. With real people sharing their real thoughts and puny wisecracks in 140-character bursts in the background, TV commentary doesn't know whether to go big or go social. ITV's Clive Tyldesley, with his infallible knack for saying what nobody is thinking, said on England's ejection \"there will be millions of Englishmen shedding tears tonight\", a statement of such fatuity that incoming air traffic at Heathrow had to be diverted to avoid an enormous question mark in the sky. The great phrase-makers have been ushered off the stage, to be replaced by overheated hacks or former pros incapable of making the language sing. Des Lynam would probably have welcomed us back to the studio with something better than the \"well, well, well\" which was all the otherwise admirable Gary Lineker could muster after Holland had subjected Spain to an opening mugging. With the players making their statements through social media and the fans responding in the same way, TV football seems to have lost an empire and not yet found a role. Social media has increased the feeling of this being the World Cup that the fans at home wanted to see rather than the one that the custodians of the game thought was good for us. The Suarez incident underlined that whenever football people arrange their features into a grave expression and say \"this is not what we want to see\" it usually indicates that this is precisely what we do want to see. Similarly most of us were happy to see the back of the haughty aristocrats of Spain and Italy and the clueless NCOs of England because it cleared the way for the harum scarum, crossbar-twanging, bread and circuses version of the game which we actually prefer. Why do we like it so? Because it gives us plenty to talk about.",
  "title": "Twitter gives World Cup 2014 extra bite",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "football/world-cup-2014",
    "football/world-cup-football",
    "football/football",
    "sport/sport",
    "uk/uk",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "David Hepworth: Social media have made fans worldwide feel more involved than ever before \u2013 and have often left TV commentators stumbling",
  "id": "media/2014/jul/06/twitter-world-cup-2014-social-media-luis-suarez",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}