{
  "content": "Ewan McGregor today won damages from a number of newspapers, including the Sun and the Daily Record, over pictures the papers printed of him and his family on holiday. Details of the mutually agreed settlement are confidential, but it is thought McGregor, the star of Trainspotting, and his two young daughters - Clara, 8, and Esther, 2 - have been paid a total of around \u00a35,000 in compensation and \u00a335,000 in costs. The French photographic agency responsible for the pictures, Eliot Press SARL, has contributed to the costs and agreed not to syndicate the photos again. Eliot was joined in the action by the brokers of the deal, photographer Jason Fraser and picture agency Fraser Woodward, and the two papers which used the images in December 2002. All the parties concerned contributed to the \u00a35,000 settlement which falls well below the \u00a350,000 compensation received last year by Radio 1 DJ Sara Cox and her husband, Jon Carter, for nude photos of them on honeymoon in the Seychelles that were published in the People. McGregor's windfall comes after he argued that the pictures of him and his family on a beach in Mauritius were in breach of laws on confidence, and data protection. Although there are no privacy laws in the UK, McGregor's lawyers were claiming it as a privacy victory. Nigel Tate, a partner at Carter Ruck, the law firm that represented McGregor, said the case highlighted the remedies now available to public figures who are targeted by paparazzi photographers. \"With the benefit of European court decisions, people in the public eye are going to appreciate they can take steps to protect their privacy even in public places,\" he said. \"It's very distressing for some of our clients to be followed by a pack of photographers - we all have the right to relax and you can't do that when you are surrounded by paparazzi.\" The Press Complaints Commission expressly bans photographing or interviewing children without permission of their parents or guardians, however celebrities are increasingly resorting to the courts for redress against paparazzi photographs. McGregor's award comes a fortnight after Princess Caroline of Monaco won a landmark legal victory from Europe's top human rights court, which ruled that the German press had violated her right to privacy by publishing photographs of her and her children. The Trainspotting and Star Wars star has always taken a firm line when it comes to his family's privacy, last year branding Heat magazine a \"dirty, filthy piece of shit\" and urging a boycott of the magazine. In an interview on the London radio station LBC in May 2003, he said the paparazzi \"shouldn't be shot, but they should be severely beaten up. They don't have the right to intrude on people's lives, I really don't think they do.\" \"Especially with my children, I've always felt that as a parent, it's my right to protect my children and everyone would agree with that. \"If a guy comes up and asks me, 'Can I take a picture of your daughter?', that's one thing. \"But if he's hiding behind a bus and he takes a picture of me and my daughter, he's legally allowed to publish that photo in the press and I have no rights to stop him, and I think that's wrong.\" English judges have, in general, taken a harsher line on the publication of photographs than on the articles they accompany - in January 2002, the People was banned from using photographs of TV presenter Jamie Theakston taken inside a brothel but allowed to run an article based on interviews with prostitutes. And in the law lords' judgement in May in favour of Naomi Campbell against the Daily Mirror, which published pictures of the model leaving a Narcotics' Anonymous meeting, Lord Carswell said the publication of the photographs \"went significantly beyond the publication of the fact that she was receiving therapy or that she was engaged in a course of therapy with NA\". \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "McGregor wins privacy settlement",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "film/ewanmcgregor",
    "film/film",
    "culture/culture",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": " Ewan McGregor today won damages from defendants including the Sun and the Daily Record over pictures the papers printed of him and his family. By Chris Tryhorn",
  "id": "media/2004/jul/05/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}