{
  "content": "When the New York Times published a dialect survey from Harvard research as a quiz at the end of 2013, it produced the most popular online \"story\" of the year. The quiz was bigger than the Boston Marathon, bigger than any single NSA story, bigger than sport, bigger than weather. The reasons are simple enough. It was \"interactive\" and highly \"shareable\", in other words rather than just being viewed as a news story by readers it was posted on Facebook, multiply tweeted and passed around both the \"social\" and the not-so-social web. It gained more attention, inevitably, as the story that appeared at the top of the New York Times website's \"most read\" list of 2013. Attention in the virtual world is like money in the real world; the very presence of it attracts more of the same, producing what might seem like gross iniquities. A cat falling off a sofa is less important than riots in Venezuela, yet we can now see how our attention goes to one not the other. Measuring how and what we read online has become an obsession for all publishers. Last week Pew, the research centre which comprehensively tracks the measurable bits of American society, produced a report looking at the nation's top 26 news sites and came to the unsurprising conclusion that those who go directly to a website for their news are far more engaged than those who arrive through Facebook. Again unsurprisingly, companies built around a current user behaviour rather than existing publishing norms, like Buzzfeed, see a much higher level of their readership arriving through social platforms. Buzzfeed, for instance, gets 50% of its traffic from Facebook, while the New York Times sees only 7%. As the report astutely points out: for organisations producing news content, what may be most critical is how much they understand about these different audience pathways and the degree to which their strategies \u2013 both in terms of content and revenue \u2013 match their audience flow. Indeed, one editor last week told me that \"by far the most important vector for traffic now to news sites is the Facebook algorithm which determines who sees what. And we only partially understand how that works\". Talking at the tech festival SXSW last week, Eli Pariser, the founder of Upworthy, the viral news site which intrigues and infuriates traditional newsrooms in equal measure, laid out the editorial challenge for news companies in very stark terms: \"Unless we figure out how to make the important stuff really engaging, I don't know that it reaches a broad audience,\" said Pariser, adding \"news junkies have never had it better \u2026 but people who don't seek out content about important stuff, and expect to just have it surfaced in their media environment, may be having that happen less. And to me that's worrisome.\" The worrisome nature of producing news that hits numeric targets is instinctively uncomfortable for journalists and editors, but then it is logical to use all metrics at your disposal to reach your audience. The abundance of possible metrics now available to publishers is not necessarily helping either. Using NSA-style techniques (although naturally much more benignly), the Guardian or any other publisher can track every movement you make on an online piece, where you come from, where you go to, whether you are actively reading or whether you have tuned out. These metrics form themselves into the basis of advertising sales and increasingly inform editorial decisions too. Morning news conference is more likely to be an in-depth look at analytics than a discussion of \"what's on today\" at the most sophisticated news companies. If metrics are going to shape the news, then it is a good idea for us to attempt to get them right. Tony Haile, the chief executive of the news metrics company Chartbeat, noted on Time.com last week that most of the metrics which have been in use for measuring how we read are misleading, and that many assumptions about how people actually behave online are currently wrong. Haile argues that it is important that companies recognise that the \"clicks\" are a poor measure of success \u2013 \"what happens when you land on the page is more important than the click that gets you there\", he says. Haile and Pariser are both part of a movement to try to create new ways of accurately measuring how much people really engage with the news and other content, and how much they genuinely read or watch. Upworthy is already working on its own \"engagement\" metric getting away from the idea that \"clicks\" on pages are important. These metrics will dictate not only how your news is designed, but also ultimately how the commercial landscape for all digital content will develop too.",
  "title": "If metrics are going to shape the news, then it is a good idea to get them right",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/new-york-times",
    "media/media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/buzzfeed",
    "media/theguardian",
    "media/advertising",
    "technology/sxswi",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/us-press-publishing"
  ],
  "lead": "Emily Bell: Morning news conference is more likely to be an in-depth look at analytics than a discussion of what's on today",
  "id": "media/media-blog/2014/mar/16/metrics-shape-news-website-content-hits",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}