{
  "content": "You know the problem. You're going abroad for a couple of weeks, during which time your house will be empty. You haven't yet got round to installing a burglar alarm. But not to worry \u2013 just pop round to a supermarket and buy a couple of timer sockets. Plug them into the mains, set the timers to switch on and off at appropriate times twice a day, plug your lamps into them and off you go. Easy, peasy! Well, yes. But it's so 1950s. So analogue. Why not be really cool and have a proper networked timer socket, something that you can control from your smartphone from anywhere in the world? Something like the AuYou Wi-Fi Switch for example. Looks like it's just the ticket. Plug it in, hold down the power button and it hooks up with the app on your (Android) smartphone, and \u2013 bingo! \u2013 job done. Now, where did you put that boarding pass? But, hang on. Maybe you should just check the product reviews, just to be sure. Ah, here's one by a guy called Matthew Garrett. \"There's a lot to like about this hardware,\" Matthew writes, \"but unfortunately it's entirely overwhelmed by everything there is to hate about it.\" Eh? Turns out that Mr Garrett knows a lot about computer security. And as he delves into how the AuYou switch works, he finds a real mess. Like all networked devices, the socket has a MAC address, a globally unique network address. You can set on/off times on the socket via the app on your phone and, if you're in your house, that's fine, because the command never leaves your wireless network. But if you're on holiday in Spain, say, then the command goes via an intermediate server in China (where else?) The command is supposedly encrypted, but Mr Garrett found it laughably easy to crack. The implication is that your phone's communication with the socket in your home \u2013 communication that contains the device's unique address \u2013 is completely insecure. \"So,\" warns Mr Garrett, \"if anybody knows the MAC address of one of your sockets, they can control it from anywhere in the world. You can't set a password to stop them and a normal home router configuration won't block this. You need to explicitly firewall off the server... in order to protect yourself. Again, this is completely unrealistic to expect for a home user, and if you do this then you'll also entirely lose the ability to control the device from outside your home.\" Welcome to the internet of things, the latest new thing from the tech industry. IoT evangelists talk it up in breathless terms \u2013 20 to 50 billion devices (each with its own MAC address) connected to the internet etc. Yea, verily toaster shall speak unto toaster and fridges shall tell Tesco when to deliver milk, and Amazon will know what you want before you can articulate the thought yourself. And so on, ad nauseam. Given that technological determinism is what drives this industry, everyone and his dog is racing to get on the IoT bandwagon. Every tech company I can think of is developing networked devices for powering the smart home of the future; already you can buy thousands of networked gadgets such as the AuYou switch to speed you on your way into that future. There's a lot to be said for a properly networked world. It could be safer, greener, more efficient and more productive than the one we currently inhabit. But in order for that to emerge, the system has to be designed in the way that the internet was designed in the 1970s \u2013 by engineers who know what they're doing, setting the protocols and technical standards that will bring some kind of order and security into the chaos of a technological stampede. What we've got at the moment, however, is something very different \u2014 the disjointed incrementalism of an entrepreneurial marketplace, in which anybody with an idea for a networked device can get a chronically insecure product on Amazon in weeks or months. The AuYou socket, for example, is made by taking an off-the-shelf item \u2013 the EFP8266 Wi-Fi SOC (system on a chip) \u2013 bunging it into a socket, writing some software and setting up a server in China. Not exactly rocket science. There are thousands of insecure IoT products already out there. If our networked future is built on such dodgy foundations, current levels of chronic online insecurity will come to look like a golden age. The looming dystopia can be avoided, but only by concerted action by governments, major companies and technical standards bodies. In the meantime, we need more reviewers such as Matthew Garrett. Which reminds me: Amazon.com says that the AuYou Wi-Fi switch is \"currently unavailable. We don't know when or if this item will be back in stock\". It's a small mercy, but one for which we should be thankful.",
  "title": "The internet of things needs better-made things | John Naughton",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet-of-things",
    "technology/smart-homes",
    "technology/internet-safety",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Networked devices for your smart home are the modern way to manage your life, but the rush to sell shoddy smart products risks compromising security",
  "id": "commentisfree/2016/jul/10/internet-of-things-better-made-things-smart-devices-security",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}