{
  "content": "In general, there are a lot of good things to say about the London borough of Richmond upon Thames' feature-rich and information-filled website. But the other day I was casually browsing the planning pages, when I spotted a little notice warning that by using the search facility I would be bound by a licence agreement. I clicked for the details, which included a lot about gazetteer data. And this: \"Your continued use of www.richmond.gov.uk indicates your acceptance to be bound by these terms and conditions. If you do not agree to be bound by these terms and conditions, please cease using www.richmond.gov.uk.\" Not just \u2013 don't use the planning pages, but \u2013 don't use the site at all. As a taxpayer, I resent that. Where, I wondered, did that come from? It turns out that there are two sets of T&amp;Cs: first, the council's own general site T&amp;Cs; second, the \"web-click\" licence specifically for the postcode and addressing information, which is supplied by the National Land and Property Gazetteer and the National Street Gazetteer. These are the products of a joint venture between the UK's 346 local authorities, Ordnance Survey, and private company Intelligent Addressing, which provides the technology hub that powers the whole system. By statute, addresses are created and managed by the local authorities, who name and number new properties. Many organisations need this information immediately, including the emergency services and the post office. In the old days, the council sent out letters. Ten years ago, pdfs. As of 2005, however, the data is transmitted electronically to Intelligent Addressing, which aggregates and validates the data, benchmarks it against other datasets to ensure it's complete, and then uses web services to distribute it onwards. \"It's the only example I know of where the 346 councils coordinate to do their statutory duty in an entirely consistent manner on behalf of society,\" says Nick Turner, Intelligent Addressing's business development manager. He goes on to explain about the licence. \"If you draw a square,\" he says, \"at the corners you'd have Intelligent Addressing, the local authorities, Local Government Information House, and Ordnance Survey, and there's a flow-through of licensing between all four organisations.\" He then added a fifth corner: the Royal Mail. \"All five organisations have an interest in the data licence, and there are terms and conditions within the National Land and Property Gazetteer for all five, so effectively this web-click licence is a licence that LGIH has arranged with Ordnance Survey for public service delivery within a public website.\" The basic threat they're worried about seems to be people repeatedly hitting the council websites until they have compiled a full set of addresses they could use to create competing services. \"All local authorities are bound by the same T&amp;Cs,\" says Steve Whitworth from Richmond's corporate web team, adding that the licence will change in April, when the new agreement governing the use of Ordnance Survey data is due. \"I suspect it will be a whole, new set and will be simpler.\" However, comparing Richmond's licence with the one posted by nearby Ealing, it's obvious that Richmond made some additions, including, among other things, the sentence that so offended me. This seems to be part of Richmond's essential attitude; the site's general T&amp;Cs say: \"No part of this website may be copied, broadcast, adapted or used in any way, without the prior permission of the London Borough of Richmond Upon Thames.\" (Hmm: am I allowed to quote that?) \"Culturally, the way local government works in the UK is that it doesn't perceive itself as being by the people and for the people,\" says Jason Kitcat, the acting assistant director for the Open Rights Group and a Green city councillor for Brighton and Hove. \"The default is that the information is copyright of the council and if it can monetise it, it will.\" It's not clear, he agrees, how exactly a council might monetise its recycling schedule. \"But I have seen situations where companies want to sell it on and aggregate it, so they're keeping their options open without realising that if they used an open licence they would be enabling far more commercial and non-commercial uses of it and that it's not an appropriate use of taxpayer money, really. It's a cultural thing with solicitors \u2013 let's do a really blanket licence so there are no problems coming our way.\"",
  "title": "Why does a council's website have a click-use licence?",
  "lead": "Wendy Grossman: When searching on Richmond upon Thames' website I was warned I would be bound by a licence agreement",
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/data-computer-security"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/blog/2011/mar/07/richmond-council-planning-pages",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}