{
  "content": "In his insightful autobiography, Red Carpets and Other Banana Skins, the actor Rupert Everett has a little paragraph about a particular Soho social world of the late 1980s. \"There was a girl who called herself Princess Julia, with a voice like Eliza Doolittle, a DJ by the name of Tallulah [a man], and a pair of gay carpenters called Alan and Fritz. Everyone seemed to have fairground names: Greek Andy, Gary the Cleaner, Space Princess.\" What seemed a novelty in an upper room in 1989 has spread and spread. Everyone, now, has a fairground name. Where, 25 years ago, a view would usually be expressed in print by someone using their own name, these are some of the people whose views I have read recently in the Guardian: Martyn in Europe, Kisunssi, RobWhelk, Man Who Fell to Earth and Flumpasaurus. In the world of online discussion, nearly everyone is a Space Princess, and it seems quite normal. A number of solutions have been put forward for the phenomenon of hatred and vitriol poured out online, but one is particularly popular: it's proposed that social media websites should incorporate a \"panic button\", allowing victims to report abuse and allowing abusers to be blocked. Why the \"panic button\" would not become another weapon in the hands of anonymous abusers is not clear. What would stop an anonymous tweeter reporting a Caroline Criado-Perez for man-hating comments and getting her blocked? Are we confident that the powers at Twitter can tell the difference between a robust, controversial opinion and the open statement of hatred? The Huffington Post has concluded that the cause of the open hatred is anonymity, and is requiring commentators to post under their real names from next month. The Guardian's Joanna Geary, responding to this news, said that anonymity \"adds to the richness\" of online debate, and that \"anyone who has watched two friends mudslinging below a Facebook status update knows real identities don't bring instant politeness.\" Perhaps, though, this neglects the fact that the worst abuse is largely directed by anonymous contributors against people writing under their own names. And perhaps proponents of real-name contributions don't want enforced and universal politeness, just that people should be accountable for their comments. As Everett's observations demonstrate, the movement towards pseudonyms in the aid of excessively licentious behaviour is not new. Rather, the decision by many online fora not just to allow anonymous contributions as an occasional necessity, but assume it as the normal state of affairs, continues a process that has been going on for decades. In Pride and Prejudice (1813), Wickham misrepresents his own character, but a mere application to Darcy and Darcy's housekeeper is enough to put the matter straight. Effective malign anonymity is impossible in the small rural communities of the upper bourgeoisie. By the appearance of Sherlock Holmes in the 1880s, escaping detection has become all too easy in a city that, at the next census, would hold 5.5 million people. To discover the reality and intentions behind a plausible exterior, a possible false name or an invented history, Holmes must develop a battery of techniques \u2013 studying appearance, manners, gestures, handwriting. Anonymity became a real possibility, and its appeal has continued to grow. We are now much more anonymous than we used to be. We are less and less likely to know even our most immediate neighbours \u2013 one survey found that over 50% of us don't even known their names. Robert D Putnam, in his celebrated 2000 study, Bowling Alone, found that everyday personal interaction had been on the decline in North America since 1950. In the example that gave his book its name, bowling was growing much more popular; but membership of bowling leagues had been declining for years. This everyday anonymity is not just accepted, but dramatised and celebrated in unexpected ways. The masked ball enjoyed a resurgence from the 1990s onwards in North America, and anyone who goes to the theatre group Punchdrunk's The Drowned Man will be struck by the remarkable appearance of the wandering audience in white masks. At a previous event, The Masque of the Red Death, I was emboldened by my mask to indulge in what I would normally dread and loathe, interaction with the actors, even, at one point, dancing insanely with an actor in front of a watching crowd. Nobody knew who I was. And I got a sense of what it must be like, to write something under a pseudonym that you would never say to someone's face. By the 2000s, our commitment to anonymity was growing in hypocritical counterpart to the insatiable demand to know everything about the lives of celebrities. The noughties audience wanted their subjects to live under an authentic spotlight, and said so \u2013 anonymously. Usefully, there are always individuals in the world who actually need to be unnamed \u2013 dissidents in China, say, or Iran. Their plight was consistently used by first-year undergraduates in the home counties and junior solicitors in the provinces to justify writing anonymous personal abuse about their public figure of choice. In the world before the internet, when writers received abuse by post, I would sometimes amuse myself by telephoning my correspondent. It was surprising how often the writers of green-ink letters gave their real names and even addresses, however vile their opinions. I remember asking one gentleman, one Saturday morning, quite why he hoped that I would contract Aids and die. He blustered and prevaricated, but ultimately apologised. For many such people, anonymity was not an option. After all, to write letters of abuse was a crime under the 1988 Malicious Communications Act, and anonymous poison-pen letters a staple of crime fiction; Dorothy L Sayers' Gaudy Night and John Dickson Carr's Night at the Mocking Widow come to mind. Only with the internet did a sense of impunity establish itself, and indeed sometimes a sense that the writer was doing nothing wrong. The question is, surely, the size of the community. In smaller groups, a writer can be pseudonymous, but not anonymous \u2013 the \"hacktivists\" of Anonymous, for instance, were not anonymous: they knew each other as Tflow, Topiary, Sabu and Kayla, and were familiar with each other's personalities. But in a larger group, where familiarity is not likely to grow, the named individual is likely to want protection against the masked stranger. So he turns to the computer, logs on as LondonGirl4796, and begins to write, with joy and liberation.",
  "title": "The bigger a community gets, the easier and more virulent anonymity becomes | Philip Hensher",
  "lead": "Philip Hensher: The possibility, and the dangers, of anonymity started to become apparent long before we all went online, and both have only continued to grow",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "technology/anonymous",
    "technology/hacking",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/digital-media",
    "world/freedom-of-speech",
    "society/society"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/aug/23/bigger-community-easier-virulent-anonymity",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}