{
  "content": "Getting people to public meetings on a rainy Wednesday evening can be tough. Dudley council has 10 community forum public meetings at various venues across the borough that are well attended but numbers could always be higher. An idea was floated last year of bringing these meetings to where people spend a lot of their time these days \u2013 Facebook. The suggestion raised a few eyebrows; after all, encouraging people to quiz politicians and say exactly what they think of Dudley council online and without an agenda isn't very in keeping with how local authorities usually operate. But thousands of people share ideas and opinions on the Dudley borough Facebook page. It's one of a number of social media platforms we're very established on, and there's about 2,500 likes on the page, with numbers steadily increasing. The council's communications team regularly shares news, information and consultations and people are keen to get involved. It seemed an obvious step to take the conversations that are happening at our regular community forums to Facebook. The first Facebook forum in September last year was a huge success, despite the inevitable anxiety about difficult issues people might raise. We had more than 1,300 post views and 20 people put questions to the deputy leader of the council, Pete Lowe. We posted an opening welcome and a picture of Lowe; then people added their questions underneath. Any key topics were posted via @Dudleymbc Twitter feed, it was all really easy to follow, and importantly, public. Topics ranged from regeneration projects and the new waste and recycling programme to litter and dog poo bins. General service requests like reporting potholes were passed to our customer services team, leaving councillor Lowe to discuss ideas and explain the decision making of the council. People may not have agreed with him, but they respected the openness of it all. For a council, it was a useful exercise in finding out what makes borough residents tick as part of their desire to be a \"community council\", and for the residents it offered direct access to a senior decision maker from the comfort of their own home. Since then, we've had two more Facebook forums with anything from a dozen to 20 people taking part, which is more than most of the physical forums. The council has now turned from a risky online pilot into a permanent, regular fixture. Our reach on Facebook has also grown by 50,000 since September and we've had an extra 250 likes. The Improvement and Efficiency West Midlands praised our work through Best by West Midlands, which allowed us to share the idea with other councils. Enthusiasm from politicians and a genuine desire to hear what people have to say was vital in getting from a concept to what has been achieved today. That is the biggest challenge for other councils who decide to hold a similar meetings. Top tips for setting up a Facebook community forum 1) Make sure you have a willing and relevant politician to lead it Councillor Pete Lowe is our deputy leader and is very social media savvy. He's also in a position to offer comment and advice on a wide range of council services. Political co-operation is crucial as is making it clear who is answering the questions. 2) Be open and honest People ask some really uncomfortable questions on Facebook. A pre-prepared statement from the communications department won't cut it. 3)Have a set timeframe We set an hour for people to take part, which is manageable for everyone. Any questions which come in after that we try and answer as soon as we can or bring in our customer services team for service requests. Chris Howes is communications and public affairs officer at Dudley council. \u2022 Want your say? Email sarah.marsh@theguardian.com to suggest contributions to the network Not already a member? Join us now for more comment, analysis and the latest job opportunities in local government.",
  "title": "How to hold a council meeting on Facebook",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "public-leaders-network/public-leaders-network",
    "public-leaders-network/local-government",
    "society/localgovernment",
    "society/society",
    "public-leaders-network/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "society-professionals/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Chris Howes: Dudley \u2013 the first council in its county to bring public meetings to Facebook \u2013 shares tips on hosting debate online",
  "id": "local-government-network/2014/feb/19/facebook-meeting-public-dudley-council",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}