{
  "content": "Along with the unsurprising announcement that large amounts of taxpayers' cash are being shovelled in the direction of big IT firms under heavily trailed \"innovative\" contracts designed to shift the risk to the buyer (you), unsurprisingly timed just after parliament had risen for the Easter recess, the director of the Identity and Passport Service did have something surprising to say. \"We are in discussions with the financial services industry and, if they come forward with a compelling view of the rationale for chip-and-pin for them, that's definitely something we'll take extremely seriously. If we conclude that chip-and-pin is a key part of making it useful, there's no technical reason why we couldn't do it,\" said James Hall. That's some admission. It is five years since the Home Office began publicly promoting its precious national registration scheme as ID cards and got the consultants in to write a specification. It's three years since the agency Hall commands was commissioned, on April 1 2006, three days after the enabling legislation got royal assent. Now Hall's handing out vast wodges of your money for IT development of \u2026 something or other. He appears to be saying they don't yet have a technical specification for the magic card MacGuffin, and they'd quite like it if someone else would come up with a way to make it useful. It just so happens we already know what the financial services industry thinks. Sir James Crosby, Gordon Brown's favourite banker, was commissioned by the then chancellor to conduct an independent Public-Private Forum on Identity Management. The report was held back some time, then released as a classic piece of spin \"in support\" of Jacqui Smith's relaunch of the scheme just a year ago. In fact, Crosby set out 10 principles (pdf) for a viable and acceptable ID scheme, all of which are broken by the Home Office's model. There also seems to be some departure from the Home Office's own original intent. Remember that biometrics were (and are) said to be a vital part of the scheme, to \"lock an individual to a single identity\" as the UK Border Agency has it. IBM has just got a \u00a3265m contract to build the database to store our fingers and faces. But if a pin is possible instead, then it is in practice going to displace expensive specialised readers. Where will the \"gold standard\" of identity be then, what with the well-known problems of shoulder surfing and technical cracking that pins are exposed to? Shall we say\u2026 quantitatively eased? So what's with this announcement? I think we can safely assume that the current strategy is to find a way to keep the Home Office's identification empire going under an incoming hostile administration. Hence the poison pill contracts. Hence rebuilding working passport and visa procedures into a single complex infrastructure. Hence the Identity and Passport Service currently adding hundreds to its own staff headcount. And hence one more attempt to draw public attention back to a familiar, simple, unthreatening, useful physical object \u2013 chip-and-pin \u2013 and away from the life-sucking bureaucratic monster that the Home Office is feeding in the shadows.",
  "title": "Guy Herbert: Chip-and-pin for identity cards is just another distraction",
  "lead": "Guy Herbert: Chip-and-pin for identity cards is just another distraction so you won't notice the bureaucratic monster being fed in the shadows",
  "tags": [
    "politics/idcards",
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "law/human-rights",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/surveillance"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2009/apr/07/idcards-civil-liberties",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}