{
  "content": "Facebook and al-Qaida are not the most obvious places for policy makers to look for lessons on how to reform the banks. But these two very different networks can shed light on the dangerous phenomenon of banks that are \"too big to fail\". Al-Qaida is not a behemoth, but, like the IRA in its heyday, a loosely linked cluster of small cells. It has shown enormous resilience in the face of sustained attempts to bring about its destruction \u2013 unlike the big banks, which are terrifyingly fragile despite sustained attempts to avoid their downfall. Al-Qaida-style \"modular\" structures are found in other areas such as managing forest fires and infectious diseases, essential utilities such as water, gas and electricity, and in the world domino toppling record, where the pieces are arranged in discrete little groups to prevent premature collapse. As for Facebook, the insight it gives is on the limitations of human memory and our capacity for meaningful interaction with others. People are capable of only a finite, quite small number of genuine relationships: Facebook friends are not real friends. In banks engaged in a large number of varied and complex activities, executives had an exaggerated sense of their own knowledge and control, just as a Facebook addict might have an overblown sense of his own popularity. Diversified banks are not safe banks. In a brilliant speech last week, Andy Haldane, the Bank of England's executive director for financial stability, argued that the maximum efficient scale and scope for banks is probably quite modest. It was a powerful salvo in the Bank of England's campaign for a proper debate on banks that are too big to fail. Separating their utility function from their speculative, casino activities is, in the view of Mervyn King, the only realistic way of solving the problem. A Treasury select committee report on \"too big to fail\" last week called for the debate to be thrown open, but the government is reluctant to engage with the idea. The banks hate it and argue it is impractical. But the concept of quarantining some of the banks' risky activity is backed by Paul Volcker, a former Federal Reserve chairman and an adviser to President Barack Obama. Banks used to be controlled in this way in the US by the Glass-Steagall Act, which was introduced in the 1930s and forbade banks from engaging in securities business. Combined with the lesser-known McFadden Act, which limited banks' operations across state lines, it prevented the growth of sprawling mega-banks until its repeal by the Clinton administration. Reform along these lines has a number of merits, including the fact that it seeks to regulate the structure of banks, not the behaviour of bankers, which is impossible. It is also relatively simple: the 17-page Glass-Steagall Act lasted 50 years, while the Basel II rules on bank capital took years to formulate, ran to thousands of pages and were overturned by the credit crunch almost as soon as they were introduced. Haldane's argument is that banks are polluters, and must pay. How big a social cost they impose determines how much. The full damage, including direct fiscal costs and permanent damage to the broader economy might be as high as $60tn to $200tn for the world and between \u00a31.8tn and \u00a37.4tn for the UK. That suggests attempts to reform the system through imposing higher capital and liquidity requirements, and by levies on the banks would not work \u2013 the banks simply do not have deep enough pockets to cover the tab. The only way to deal with the problem of banks that are \"too big to fail\" is to make them smaller, and to prohibit and restrict certain activities. The costs to the banks would be outweighed by the benefits to society. It is about time politicians in this country followed President Obama's example and began seriously considering structural reform of the banking sector. Until that happens, the taxpayer is stuck with the risks and the costs, and the bankers keep the profits and the protection.",
  "title": "If the government is serious about bank reform, it could learn lessons from the world of domino toppling",
  "lead": "Ruth Sunderland: Modular structures and an understanding of human limitations would go a long way in preventing another banking crisis",
  "tags": [
    "business/banking",
    "business/business",
    "technology/facebook",
    "world/al-qaida",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/world",
    "business/bankofenglandgovernor"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "business/2010/apr/04/bank-reform-facebook-domino",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}