{
  "content": "Facebook and ITV.com were the only major websites other than YouTube to significantly increase their share of the UK's web video market over the past year, as the Google-owned site's domination of the sector continues to grow. Both Facebook and ITV.com launched new video offerings over the year to the end of May, growing their market share from a very low base to create a monthly audience of almost 2 million users each, according to new data from metrics firm comScore. Facebook, which launched a video-sharing feature with its developer application platform in May 2007, saw a 1,324% increase in video clips watched in the following 12 months. User numbers for video increased from just 174,000 in May 2007 to 1.8 million in the same month this year. The growth of ITV.com, which saw the number of videos it serves increase by 1,102% year on year, was driven by the relaunch of its website with an expanded video offering and catch-up service. Jeff Henry, the managing director of ITV consumer, said the broadcaster had seen increased video traffic across the ITV and ITV Local websites. \"The growth in consumer demand for video was anticipated and stimulated by the relaunch of our sites last year, which provide a fantastic, rich user experience in a world-class environment with exciting and unique content,\" Henry added. \"We are now seeing our audience telling us their linked experience is incredibly attractive and we will continue to build on this with new developments in the months to come. \"Our turnaround plan sets out our ambition to significantly grow our online assets and these numbers reaffirm our belief in the potential of this area.\" Google and its subsidiary YouTube accounted for almost half the 3.6bn videos watched online during May - an increase of more than 56% from May 2007. Despite the rapid growth in the volume of video content watched online, the overall number of UK web users watching video increased modestly by 4% to an estimated 27.4 million unique users during May this year. This indicates that individual web users have increased the number of videos they watch online, but the overall online audience for video content has not increased significantly over the past year. Google's networks of websites, including YouTube, dominate the UK web video market and have seen their market share increase from 33.9% last May to 44.9% in the same month this year, according to comScore. The US web giant grew its online video audience year on year from 16.9 million monthly unique users a year ago to 20.53 million in May. The number of videos watched across the Google network increased from 771.5m to 1.6bn - a rise of 107%. The BBC had the second-biggest UK online video audience after Google in May, with 6.5 million users and 55.8m videos. But even the BBC, which has enjoyed great success with its iPlayer broadband TV catch-up service this year, trailed far behind Google - with just 1.6% of the UK market in May. But there was bad news in the latest comScore figures for beleaguered web giant Yahoo, currently the focus of an aggressive takeover battle between Microsoft and dissident investor Carl Icahn. Yahoo's UK users watched 53% less video in May compared with the same month last year, falling to 25.1m clips. Unique user numbers for video content on the Yahoo UK site also fell, from 4.3 million to 3.8 million. Microsoft's sites, including the MSN content network, saw minimal growth of just 1.5%, in video traffic between May 2007 and the same month this year. The Microsoft network served an estimated 5.91m videos in May. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "YouTube keeps UK online video lead as Facebook and ITV.com audiences climb",
  "lead": "Facebook and ITV.com were the only major websites other than YouTube to significantly increase their share of the UK's web video market over the past year. By Jemima Kiss",
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/ITV",
    "media/media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/youtube",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2008/jul/17/digitalmedia.facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}