{
  "content": "When the personal details of 100 million Facebook users were dumped on P2P file-sharing service BitTorrent alongside pirated music, bulk credit card details and the odd bit of legal content, they was understandable panic. The real story was a little more curious. It was Canadian security researcher Ron Bowes who downloaded the data - 2.8Gb of it - by creating a crawler script to pluck information from Facebook's open access directory. But all of this data is already publicly available from any Facebook user who has not opted to hide their profile from search results. Photo by aralbalkan on Flickr. Some rights reserved The data Bowes pulled included account names, profile URL and contact details - and also the names of those users' friends, even if they have chosen not to be listed in search engine results. While alarming that Facebook's information should be harvested in this way, it is not illegal. Rather, it is a useful exercise in reminding people what 'public' really means, and that once your information is out there, you don't have any say over what happens to it. It also opens the debate on openess, because until the majority understands the implications of being 'open', it may be wise to adopt 'opt-in openness'. That won't be popular with sites, who get faster take-up if friends can find each other more easily. But there is a price to pay for that. So why did Bowes do it, and how? He wanted to contribute to the open source Ncrack project, which is testing 'brute-force' login attacks. The data he'd collected from Facebook might be useful for other researchers, he thought, so he put it on BitTorrent. It has subsequently been downloaded several hundred times, and is also on Pirate Bay. Bowes original interest was in spidering the site for data on the most popular names, Ars Technica explains. While that doesn't pose any risk to Facebook users, it could become the basis for automated cracking software that would target common usernames. Because Facebook is global, that makes it a more efficient target than a country-specific census, for example. Bowes found the top three usernames were jsmith with 129,369, ssmith with 79,365 and skhan with 77,713. \"As I thought more about it, and talked to other people, I realised that this is a scary privacy issue,\" said Bowes in a (cached) blog post. \"I can find the name of pretty much every person on Facebook. Facebook helpfully informs you that \"[a]nyone can opt out of appearing here by changing their Search privacy settings\" - but that doesn't help much anymore considering I already have them all (and you will too, when you download the torrent). Suckers!\" Facebook has insisted that no private data was compromised. \"People who use Facebook own their information and have the right to share only what they want, with whom they want, and when they want,\" it said in a rather defensive-sounding statement. \"In this case, information that people have agreed to make public was collected by a single researcher and already exists in Google, Bing, other search engines, as well as on Facebook. Similar to the white pages of the phone book, this is the information available to enable people to find each other, which is the reason people join Facebook.\" Bowes has said that he wanted to raise awareness of the \"scary privacy issue\" of public data being used in this way, but even he must be surprised by the response. And how many times has this happened before, on any profile-hosting sites, without any of us hearing about it? Don't think for a minute, by the way, that the cute kitten name that's your top secret password is anything like secure. Just a glance at the software on offer on a site like brothersoft.com (Brothersoft offers search results for 'hacking Facebook paswords' rather than actual downloads, but say they have now deleted that search page) will give you a minute window into the vast and subterranean hacking industry. But remember, don't have nightmares...",
  "title": "How 100 million Facebook users ended up in a list on BitTorrent",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/bittorrent",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/file-sharing",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "News that details of 100 million Facebook users was understandably met with some panic - particularly because the data was then dumped on file-sharing service BitTorrent alongside pirated music, bulk credit card details and the odd bit of legal content. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "technology/pda/2010/jul/29/facebook-bittorrent-data",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}