{
  "content": "Plans for Virgin Media to monitor customers' internet use for possible copyright infringement have come under fire by a human rights watchdog. The group Privacy International has expressed concern over Virgin Media's use of Cview, a software programme that would allow the internet service provider to analyse the online activity of customers. This would potentially include those who are sharing music online through unauthorised peer-to-peer sites. This latest move comes less than a year after Virgin Media announced that it was in talks with Universal Music to create a subscription service that offered unlimited downloads for a monthly fee. It is thought that the implementation of software which would allow Virgin Media to scrutinise what customers are doing online is a result of their ongoing discussions with the record industry. Alexander Hanff, head of ethical networks at Privacy International, told the BBC: \"Under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa) intercepting communications is a criminal offence regardless of what you do with the data.\" Privacy International has asked the European Commission to investigate the use of Cview. However, Virgin Media claims use of the software will not violate the privacy of its customers and will not be used to identify individuals. \"CView works at a core-network level, and simply analyses, entirely anonymously, the percentage of data that flows across the network that is copyrighted and being shared unlawfully,\" said Virgin Media spokeswoman Emma Hutchinson. She said that \"at no point will we collect or share customer data as part of this trial\". The proposal for the use of Cview software suggests that 40% of the activity on Virgin Media's network would be analysed in a trial study. Hutchinson confirmed that it would initially concentrate on traffic to three major P2P websites with links to unauthorised filesharing: Gnutella, eDonkey and BitTorrent. However, the trial is still in the planning stages and it is not clear exactly when Cview will be up and running.",
  "title": "Virgin Media to monitor music piracy",
  "lead": "Internet service provider criticised by human rights watchdog for plans to analyse online activity of customers",
  "tags": [
    "technology/file-sharing",
    "music/music",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/virginmedia",
    "law/human-rights",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/bittorrent",
    "technology/p2p",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "music/2010/jan/27/virgin-media-monitor-music-piracy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}