{
  "content": "Losing track of a child is a terrifying prospect. The recent emergence of GPS devices that can report on youngsters' whereabouts, coupled with the falling prices of gadgets, seem to offer parents a tech solution. Swedish firm Trax, for example, has designed a GPS tracker, on sale for $249 (\u00a3170), that issues alerts when children step outside of pre-set \"geo-fences\" and allows parents to follow their children from their smartphone or computer in real time. French company Weenect has also created a GPS tracker for children, and for \u20ac99 it includes an SOS button that allows distressed kids to call their parents. The device can send notifications when children reach a set destination and allows parents to review where their child has been throughout the day. Any parent who's frantically searched for a lost child will likely see the appeal. Weenect founder Adrian Harmel expects to see \"considerable growth\" on the 10,000 trackers the company sold last year. But he says children aren't in fact the biggest focus for his GPS trackers. Currently, 60% of the company's total sales are for devices to track pets, 30% are for child trackers and the remaining 10% are for its Weenect Silver device, a tracker designed for elderly. Freedom from tracking However appealing such technologies may seem at first, they could have negative effects on the very children they aim to protect. \"It is understandable that parents want to do anything they can to keep their children safe but they need to ask themselves whether tracking technology is really necessary and whether it will actually protect their children,\" said Pam Cowburn, communications director of the Open Rights Group. \"Parents need to teach their children to be independent and to be able to cope with risks and dangers.\" These trackers, she says, could limit children's privacy and personal freedom, while encouraging them to accept surveillance. \"There will undoubtedly be an impact on children's behaviour and development if they think that they are constantly monitored by their parents and teachers. \"A big concern is that it becomes normal for children to be tracked all of the time. Children have a right to privacy as much as anyone else. They need private spaces to be able to play and grow without feeling they are constantly watched.\" Harmel believes the trackers should not be seen as spying devices. He says the purpose is to give children independence while reassuring parents at the same time: \"Let's say you're stressed as a parent, what is better for your kid: to not let them do anything on their own, or to let them get a bit of autonomy thanks to a tracker?\" Harmel stresses such technology requires good communication, advising parents to carefully explain the purpose of the tracker and make sure children are aware it's not a \"superhero\" and they still need to be careful when out and about. Real-life parenting These gadgets can never be a replacement for parental attention, says Barbara Wallner, head of customer experience at Trax. \"Trax provides an additional security aid for parents and pet owners, a little bit of extra piece of mind when their loved ones are away,\" she says. \"But it can never replace proper care.\" A spokesperson from the NSPCC warned that tracking technology could lull some parents into a false sense of security, particularly when it comes to crimes such as kidnapping or abuse. \"There is no reason to think this will keep the child safe from determined offenders, who will simply throw the device away. It is also important to remember that most abuse is perpetrated by offenders who are either part of the family, or known and trusted by it.\" \"As children grow older and develop in maturity it's important they get the freedom to go out on their own or with friends. It's just a natural part of developing independence and, like every part of growing up, it can be a challenging hurdle for a parent to overcome,\" added the NSPCC spokesperson. No technology can completely protect any child, and talking to them about dangers and teaching responsibility are necessary whether using trackers or not. Ultimately, trusting children to make the right decisions and giving them the freedom to do so is big part of growing up. This should not be lost sight of by parents, who may turn to tracking technology as a crutch to get over the difficulty of letting go.",
  "title": "Would you use a GPS device to track your child?",
  "lead": "Tracking children with GPS-enabled devices is becoming practical and affordable, but child rights and privacy campaigners are worried",
  "tags": [
    "sustainable-business/sustainable-business",
    "society/child-rights",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/children",
    "society/society",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/gps",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/internet-of-things"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "sustainable-business/2016/feb/05/big-mother-gps-tracking-technology-threat-privacy-childhood",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}