{
  "content": "Consumers talk about companies on social networks: every day conversations about brands are shared on sites like Twitter and Facebook. Large companies are hiring people to observe those conversations and to talk back when it's necessary to do so. Many small businesses are looking at this trend and are wondering how they should deal with it. The online conversations still look scary for some smaller companies, as they might well do for larger companies as well. Here are some guidelines for small businesses in this new marketing field which should help you to get started. Listen If a customer starts a conversation with you, focus your attention clearly on what that person has to say. A consumer can approach you through a number of different channels \u2013 e-mail, face-to-face, in a community and so on. Whichever channel they use, if they have taken the trouble to contact you, it means that it is important to them. You must therefore listen to the individual patiently and attentively, even if they are saying negative things about your company. Most companies are afraid that online conversations are mainly negative. This is not the case; the majority are positive. In fact, in a small organisation, it's beneficial to share the positive comments of clients with employees. Ask questions In order to understand the commenter properly, it may be necessary to ask a number of questions. Perhaps your first instinct is to counter-attack, by showing them the weaknesses in their arguments. This is a bad move, which only leads to frustration, and does nothing to solve the problem. By asking questions, the customer will feel that you are showing genuine interest. You also help them to provide a more appropriate framework for their own arguments. Always make yourself ask open questions in every conversation with a customer. Good questions are: \"What do you mean exactly?\"; \"Can you give me an example of that?\" If a customer was being negative, these questions often make their second question more neutral. Or, even better, something that sounded negative to you might be less negative after some more explanation by the customer. Always take into account that clients have limited characters to use in their questions, which often make them sound more severe than they actually are. Adopt an open-minded attitude A customer might bring you a good idea, but sometimes at first you only see the practical problems which make it difficult to implement. But perhaps you were not listening closely enough. Go back and think about it again. Many successful commercial opportunities are created from suggestions generated by the market. Be open to the ideas of your customers. The advantage of small businesses in this field is that most clients are well known to them. It gives you the opportunity to follow up offline to the question. Clients love it when you open a positive debate with them on how to improve your service level. Be honest If a conversation between a company and a customer does not reach a successful conclusion, this is nearly always because the company has concealed the truth or promised more than it delivered. A customer has an inborn talent for sniffing out deception, so be honest. If there is a problem with one of your products, tell this to the customer quickly and clearly. If it is a delicate subject, don't hesitate to contact your client offline to solve the issue on the phone. Just because a conversation starts online, you don't need to finish it online. Of course, some customers will never be happy, no matter what your action is. It is important not to define your future actions based on a small number of negative people. Be a person Try to get your employees online. And, as a small business owner, try to be involved in the online community. Just be yourself. Try to connect with your clients. It gives you the opportunity to share updates about your company and allows you to connect with future clients. It even brings the opportunity to connect with the press. A small business can garner a personal touch if the business leader plays an active online role. Commit yourself A good conversation often leads to action. Assure your customer that his or her input will be used. If possible, show them at a later stage what has been done with this input. Make it a rule to use a number of ideas each year which have come from your consumers. Professor Steven Van Belleghem is author of The Conversation Company and The Conversation Manager. Find him on twitter @StevenVBe This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To receive more like this you can become a member of the Small Business Network here.",
  "title": "How to engage positively with customers through social media",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "small-business-network/accessing-expertise",
    "small-business-network/small-business-network",
    "media/media",
    "media-network/media-network",
    "business/business",
    "media/social-media",
    "business/small-business"
  ],
  "lead": "The chance to have a conversation is great, but it's important to deal with criticism in a way that won't damage your business, writes Steven Van Belleghem",
  "id": "small-business-network/2013/may/29/engaging-with-customers-social-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}