{
  "content": "When I moved to London seven years ago, one of the first things I noticed was how far the fear of failure reached into the way things work here. Risk aversion has been a sort of tumour in the British economy, particularly in terms of media and technology. Growing up in Silicon Valley, you learn that failing to try is worse than getting it wrong. It's very hard to understand why relentless optimism can't solve all the problems in the world when you cross the Atlantic. It's no surprise then that some of the initial interpretations of Google's Digital News Initiative, which opened applications this week, were so cynical when it was announced back in April. It's understandable given the disregard Google and its neighbours along Highway 101 have shown for things that people worry about. Coming over to Europe with big bags of cash and a smile does not immediately win you friends. Europeans have long memories, and they won't soon forget why Google set up the DNI in the first place. Europe has assumed the role of digital media regulator in the apparent absence of a moral compass within these platforms that exert increasing influence over our lives. It's an easy role to take on with Europe's rich history of policy innovation, federated governance and collective implicit norms across boundaries and languages. Europe could be so much more than a digital media regulator. The conditions for innovation in Europe are getting better all the time. There's a lot of venture capital available. It has never been easier to operate distributed teams. Tech talent is getting better and better around the world. Access to knowledge and new customers is improving all the time. It's also a pretty nice place to live. At the same time the increasing costs of operating in Silicon Valley are making it a less attractive destination. It's hard to recruit there. Talent is expensive. Homes are expensive. And the traffic is awful. In some ways Europe feels like a rumbling volcano waiting for the right moment to blast. It is getting increasingly confident with the success of several big wins. Sweden, in particular, has been a hotbed for innovations with Skype, Spotify, Candy Crush, Minecraft and The Pirate Bay to name a few. There are many more on the rise, such as FoodPanda and HelloFresh in Germany; Deezer, BlaBlaCar and Happn in France; Takeaway.com, Blendl and Elasticsearch from The Netherlands. As you'd expect from the centre of global finance, London is home to a range of innovative FinTech (financial technology) startups including Zopa, TransferWise, FundingCircle, WorldRemit, eToro, Crowdcube, Nutmeg and GoCardless. Europe is particularly well-suited to serve important growing areas such as biotech, renewables, governance, luxury cars, security, healthcare, telecoms and networks. It is also a brilliant place for innovation in journalism, though there are far too few success stories still. One excellent example is Videre Est Credere. Videre is a human rights organisation that supplies people in oppressed communities with cameras and training so they can expose violence and abuse they experience. It uses several tools and techniques to protect its sources who are at risk of being captured and tortured, including encrypted communications systems, data mining for social network patterns and hidden cameras. It works with YouTube, Storyful and mainstream TV broadcasters to get the material distributed. It also works closely with lawyers, providing video evidence of human rights abuses. Videre's headquarters are in London. It is a charity mostly funded by voluntary contributions and a great example of what makes European innovation different from US approaches. First, this is not innovation about whether or not an article loads on your phone quickly. This is innovation that saves people's lives, challenges abuse against women and protects democracy. Europe is very good at doing good \u2013 and it's about time the cultural sophistication acquired over centuries here gets applied in new ways like this. Second, the innovation that does happen is often in spite of or perhaps because of the structural barriers designed to slow it down. For example, the UK doesn't recognise journalism as a charitable activity. In order for Videre to register as a charity it had to define what it does in terms of human rights, not journalism. It states in its filing that Videre's role is: \"To promote human rights throughout the world by monitoring abuses of human rights and raising awareness of human rights issues.\" Clearly many journalism organisations are doing precisely that, too, but in the UK they can't operate as a charitable organisation that benefits from philanthropic donations that come with tax reliefs. The existence of that kind of restriction is an unnecessary deterrent. It's very European. Funding for journalism in Europe does happen, but a lot of the money for more experimental things is coming from European arms of US-based organisations such as Open Society Foundations and the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, which supports the Guardian's global development coverage. Bertrand Pecquerie is the CEO of the Global Editors Network, an editorial association based in Paris. \"The startup ecosystem and funding for technology is difficult in Europe compared to the US. Then funding for journalism innovation in Europe is divided by 10, compared to the US,\" he said. \"There is strong backing for 'true' journalism, as some call it, but foundations are consistently unable to fund new things \u2013 and the EU institutions have more money for publishing reports than they do for technology and innovation.\" Pecquerie would like to see funding for things that seem inevitable even if they may some day have negative side effects. Automated data-driven journalism, for example, seems likely to happen whether or not people who value journalism are behind it. \"European foundations are worried about this. It's not about money. They are against it.\" This might be where venture capital can help, but Europe isn't keeping up in venture funding, either. In fact, the gap is getting wider with the US. Google's DNI fund will go a long way towards changing the perception of what's possible even if it is actually a very small amount of money in the scheme of things. Google is deploying its brand, staff and money to support change. I would love to see more people that benefit from the existence of journalism put their money where their mouth is. Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Twitter, Yahoo! and the many investors behind those organisations should all pool money with Google into an independent fund for journalism innovations that can be distributed globally. Google's \u20ac150m (\u00a3109m) is really and truly a drop in the bucket for many of Silicon Valley's top tier organisations. They could easily pool together $1bn (\u00a3650m). An independent fund that size would create real change. Matt McAlister is cofounder of Publish.org. He worked at the Guardian for seven years developing media businesses and new technologies for journalism. Find him on Twitter @mattmcalister To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \"Advertisement feature\". Find out more here.",
  "title": "Silicon Valley should follow Google and create a $1bn journalism fund",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "technology/google",
    "media/media",
    "technology/alphabet",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/newspapers",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/amazon"
  ],
  "lead": "Google's Digital News Initiative is a start but tech firms benefiting from journalism could collaborate to create real change",
  "id": "media-network/2015/oct/23/silicon-valley-google-apple-facebook-journalism-fund",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}