{
  "content": "An injunction banning the media in England and Wales from identifying a celebrity involved in an extramarital relationship should be lifted because of leaks overseas and online, the court of appeal has ruled. However, a three-judge panel, headed by Lord Justice Jackson, extended the ban on publication for two more days to allow the celebrity, known only as PJS, to mount a challenge in the supreme court. The judges said they had considered the balance of the rights of the press against the right to privacy in their original injunction, but that the widespread leaks over the past fortnight had \"reduced the likelihood of the claimant obtaining a permanent injunction when the case comes to trial\". The ruling on Monday followed an attempt by the Sun on Sunday to have the original injunction overturned on the grounds that it was effectively redundant and unenforceable because the celebrity's identity and details of the case had now been published outside the jurisdiction of the court, in the US and Scotland. At a short hearing in the court of appeal, Des Browne QC, for PJS, asked the judges not to be harried into a decision just because of leaks. He said they should \"ponder whether that's not to replace the rule of the law with the rule of the press\". The case has been seen as a test of whether the use of privacy injunctions, used in the past by celebrities including footballer Ryan Giggs, can ever be effective in the internet era. During the hearing, the celebrities at the heart of the dispute, described as a well-known married couple, were known as PJS and YMA. Giving the court's reasons, Lord Justice Simon said: \"The court should not make orders which are ineffective.\" In what is likely to prove a key legal opinion, he said it was \"inappropriate \u2013 some may use a stronger term \u2013 for the court to ban people from saying that which is common knowledge\". He noted that the injunction had held for 11 weeks but was compromised in the last fortnight because the celebrity's name and details of the case had appeared in the US press and online. \"Knowledge of the relevant matters is now so widespread that confidentiality has probably been lost,\" he said. \"Much of the harm which the injunction was intended to prevent has already occurred. The relatives, friends and business contacts of PJS and YMA will all know perfectly well what it is alleged that PJS has been doing.\" Simon added that the \"wall-to-wall excoriation\" that the celebrity feared if the story had got out had already taken place in the English press, with numerous headlines such as \"celebrity love cheat\" and \"gag celeb couple alleged to have had a threesome\". Many readers knew who that referred to, said Jackson. The panel said injunctions were usually granted on the basis of the likelihood of a permanent judgment at a full trial. But he noted that if the interim injunction was to continue, newspapers would \"continue recycling the contents of the redacted judgment and calling upon PJS\" to reveal their identity. The judge said the Sun on Sunday had the freedom of expression rights under Article 10 the Human Rights Act 1998 and that the celebrity had rights to privacy under Article 8 of the same law. However, he said the need to balance conflicting rights meant \"there is a limit to how far the courts can protect individuals against the consequences of their own actions\". The judges said their decision to lift the injunction would be stayed until 1pm on Wednesday to give the celebrity's lawyers time to prepare a supreme court application. Both courts can give permission for a supreme court challenge to be mounted. The three appeal judges refused permission for the celebrity to appeal to the supreme court. \"We consider this is a matter for the supreme court to decide,\" Jackson said. \"We grant a stay until 1pm on Wednesday. The effect of that stay is that the injunction will remain in place until then.\" The tabloids have reacted furiously to the gag, which was revealed in March. The Daily Mail wrote: \"Why the law is an ass!\" on its front page, while the Sun described the celebrities as \"hypocritical\", claiming their attempt at presenting a wholesome family image in the media was false. The injunction was originally granted on the grounds that naming the parents would harm the welfare of the couple's children. In their original court of appeal ruling, Jackson and Lady Justice King said: \"The expectation of privacy is somewhat lower than might otherwise be the case\" because of PJS's own behaviour. However, they noted that the couple had an open relationship, and evidence showed that occasional sexual encounters outside their marriage did not detract from their commitment. \"The picture which emerges from the publicity material is not one of total marital fidelity, but rather a picture of a couple who are in a long-term, loving and committed relationship. On the present evidence, that image is an accurate one,\" they concluded. \"If the defendant publishes the proposed story, this will not set the record straight in any material respect. It will simply reveal that one feature of the claimant's and YMA's long-term relationship is that the claimant is allowed to have occasional sexual encounters with others. That would provide supplementary information, but it would not correct a false image.\" The legal dispute was prompted in January, when the Sun on Sunday got a tipoff that the celebrity had been involved in a \"three-way\" encounter with two others known as AB and CD. PJS immediately sought an injunction, arguing that publication was a breach of privacy and not in the public interest. When the court of appeal judgment was revealed in March, the Sun attacked the gagging order saying the \"high-profile celebrity has courted publicity for years, regularly including his kids\". It said judges were not there to act as \"moral arbiters over tabloid stories of which they sniffily disapprove\". It said it thought the \"draconian privacy injunctions\" had had their day. Key points of the ruling Jackson gave a series of reasons for lifting the injunction following the two-day stay: \"Knowledge of the relevant matters is now so widespread that confidentiality has probably been lost.\" \"Much of the harm which the injunction was intended to prevent has already occurred.\" Because of the leaks, the \"shock\" of publication will be less than in January when the Sun on Sunday first sought to publish. \"If the injunction stands, newspaper articles will continue to appear recycling the contents of the redacted judgment\" and the celebrity couple will be called upon to reveal their identity. \"Websites discussing the story will continue to pop up. As one is taken down, another will appear.\" The celebrity has Article 8 rights to privacy, but this is offset by the Sun on Sunday's Article 10 right to freedom of expression under the Human Rights Act. \"There is a limit to how far the courts can protect individuals against the consequences of their own actions.\" \"As a result of recent events, the weight attached to the claimant's Article 8 right to privacy has reduced. It is in my view inappropriate \u2013 some may use a stronger term \u2013 for the court to ban people from saying what which is common knowledge.\" But he warned that once the injunction had been lifted, the Sun on Sunday would still risk a claim by the celebrity over alleged breach of privacy and misuse of private information.",
  "title": "'Celebrity threesome' injunction should be lifted, say appeal judges",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/media",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "Ban to remain in place for two more days to allow the celebrity, known only as PJS, to mount legal challenge, rules court",
  "id": "media/2016/apr/18/court-of-appeal-celebrity-threesome-injunction",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}