{
  "content": "How odd it must have been to be Stephen Holmes, unsuspecting Kanye West fan, who, after briefly tweeting his hero last week to ask him which brand of toothpaste he favours on his diamond teeth, was selected to be the sole person followed by the mercurial rapper. In the week he has been on Twitter, West has gained 400,000 followers, roughly 399,999 of whom immediately got extremely annoyed that he hadn't picked them as the \"chosen one\". Coventry-based Holmes subsequently acquired about 1,600 new followers overnight, and has turned into a minor Twitter celebrity. He noted, \"I feel pressure to say amusing and witty tweets now,\" although maintains an endearing fondness for Lily Allen and Irn Bru, despite his unexpected celebrity hijacking. \"Tweet strong young man, tweet strong,\" was Kanye's sage advice. It's interesting, because Twitter is not a democracy. There are stars, and they have acolytes, which is pretty much the relationship we have with them on TV, or in magazines: they talk, we listen. Five and a half million of us, in the case of Britney Spears. But how about when they talk back? As Holmes is finding out, if a proper famous person starts to follow you, that's where paralysis sets in. A funny tweeter friend of mine recently got followed by comedian Charlie Higson. He confesses he went from enjoying making off-the-cuff remarks to sweatily panicking over every hewn character for about a week, and is still too afraid to check to see if Higson's still following him. Of course, there are exceptions: every single politician on twitter will follow you back faster than @tweetalondoncab: try it, it's quite funny. I've suffered my own Twitter performance anxiety in the past: having recommended that my friends follow the amazing singer-songwriter Tracey Thorn, she followed me right back with a jaunty message. It was extremely difficult not to make my next six tweets awestruck fawning of stupendous proportions. I think, under the circumstances, Holmes is doing extremely well. They do say never meet your heroes. But maybe, on Twitter, it's OK. \u2022 Tracey Thorn was misspelled Tracey Thorne in the original version of this article. It was corrected on August 4",
  "title": "How Kanye West gave one fan Twitter anxiety",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "music/kanyewest",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "The rapper is only following one person, who is now a rather stressed-out Twitter celebrity",
  "id": "technology/2010/aug/02/kanye-west-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}