{
  "content": "The phrase \"social network\" may be one of the least accurately used terms of our age. To be honest, I think it's only got itself to blame being, as it is, a truism. But as the tag line of the so-called Web 2.0 revolution, it gets pressed into service to describe all manner of websites and the like - even when they are nothing of the sort. Some common factors are shared by online social networks - and, in fact, by all human networks. Naturally enough, they usually encourage people to connect with each other. The big names of online social networking, such as MySpace, Bebo and Facebook, set out with the aim of facilitating just that. They're not social networks themselves, they're places in which social networking occurs. They are, in Tim O'Reilly's words, architectures for participation - places and tools for interaction. The value of the networks themselves resides in the connections between parties. The evidence of those connections, in turn, is in what people do together as a result of being linked. This might be sharing content, organising a party, buying and selling a car, exchanging business recommendations and so on. And very often these networks are transitory in the extreme. You are briefly linked to the contributor of a video on YouTube, for instance. Facebook's use by students to organise campus activities is evidence that some networks have strong real-world ties. But, in many more cases, a looser bond is at their heart. This can have effects which seem odd to many. Often top of the list is the idea of \"friends\" on MySpace. These are not necessarily friends in any traditional sense. Their existence is like a badge which says that I belong to this group and that, in turn, my belonging to the group says something about me and how I want to appear to the outside world. Tell me you've not constructed the invitation list to a dinner party with at least some of the same thoughts in mind if you like, but I won't believe you. Much, although not all, of the Web 2.0 revolution is being driven by the people, brands and software which understand this need to connect and then set about making it possible; the architects of this participation. Hence this week's $280m sale to CBS of the social music service Last.fm. At the heart of Last.fm is a simple idea: people with similar tastes in music like sharing them with each other. However, the addition of the scale of the internet to that idea revolutionises it. What would happen if 20 million people per month told someone, via some invisible software called a scrobbler, what they'd been listening to? Answer: there would be a big pile of data. OK, so what if someone then applied technologies which collaboratively filtered all that data, and presented the results so that the user could learn about music they might like by comparing their passions with those of other listeners? Then you'd get Last.fm - a social media concept with a business model; buy the music, look at ads, maybe even meet some of those who share my love of rare acoustic live sets. Services like Last.fm, and the software which underpins it, are essential to the future of networks. They can also condition much of what goes after them. As Churchill said of the rebuilt House of Commons in 1943, \"We shape our buildings, and afterwards our buildings shape us.\" The same is true of social networks. They are architectural. Tools like stumbleupon.com, which allows users to rate websites and then click to be taken to a website highly rated by other stumbleupon users, provide services which help us find our way around online by sticking together. They call this social browsing - and doing it changes the web experience itself forever. eBay just bought stumbleupon for about $40m. Social media services are here to stay for one simple reason and a clutch of more complex ones. Firstly, they help us to do exactly what we used to do in the days before the internet (for instance, share our passion for music or our photos) but they do this in a massive, public, networked way. This is a small change when said quickly but a paradigm shift - in the original meaning of the phrase - when the maths of networks kicks in. As the bank managers of the founders of Last.fm will be the latest to tell you, the maths is kicking in. \u00b7 Anthony Lilley is chief executive of Magic Lantern Productions",
  "title": "New media: Anthony Lilley on networks",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/web20"
  ],
  "lead": "On new media, Anthony Lilley: An understanding of the basic human impulse to connect with others is central to the web 2.0 revolution.",
  "id": "media/2007/jun/04/mondaymediasection.socialnetworking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}