{
  "content": "Press watchdogs have said the parents of conjoined twins Jodie and Mary Attard undermined their right to privacy after they sold pictures to newspapers as part of their bid to launch a trust fund for the surviving baby Lord Wakeham, the chairman of the press complaints commission, warned that those who sell details of their private life may undermine their rights to it. His comments came after the Manchester Evening News was cleared of breaking the regulator's code of conduct in publishing photographs of the surviving conjoined twin, Gracie Attard. In clearing the newspaper, which is part of the Guardian Media Group, the watchdog said at the time the pictures were carried in June this year, similar photographs were about to be published in an exclusive deal between Gracie's parents, Michaelangelo and Rina Attard and two Sunday newspapers and a TV station. The agreement, with the News of the World, the Mail on Sunday and Granada TV, was worth a reported \u00a3350,000 to the family - whose other twin Rosie died in the operation carried out in Manchester last year to separate the pair. The couple's solicitors told the courts the money would be put into a trust fund and used for their daughter. They complained to the PCC on the grounds that the photographs infringed their privacy rights and contravened the commission's codes on photographing children and taking photographs in hospitals. But Lord Wakeham said today the ruling made clear that \"those who sell details of their own private life may undermine their rights to it in the longer term\". \"That is just one of the reasons why we ruled that the Manchester Evening News did not breach the editors' tough code of practice in publishing pictures of Gracie,\" he said. \"It is a common sense decision - which again shows that tough and effective self-regulation by newspapers through the PCC works to protect the public's rights and the public interest at one and the same time.\" The PCC said it was not its function to protect the financial position of complainants through the use of privacy sections of its code of practice. The watchdog also rejected claims by the Attards that the MEN had obtained the pictures by misrepresentation or subterfuge. The newspaper's photographer shot the pictures of Mr and Mrs Attard outside St Mary's Hospital as they posed for their exclusive photographs two days earlier. It further dismissed a claim that the newspaper had breached rules protecting the privacy of hospital patients. It said the pictures were taken in a public place outside the hospital. The PCC decided to make no ruling on a claim that the family's privacy had been breached because it said the matter had already been decided by the high court, which had banned further unauthorised use of the pictures, partly on the grounds they were taken with a long lens. Paul Horrocks, the editor of the Manchester Evening News, described the ruling as \"a great victory for common sense\". \"We believe our photographer showed initiative and this strikes at the very heart of what a free press is about,\" he added. \"This was a good old-fashioned scoop. The welfare of the child was never affected.\"",
  "title": "Twins' parents 'undermined right to privacy' by selling pictures",
  "lead": "1pm:  Press watchdogs have said the parents of conjoined twins Jodie and Mary Attard undermined their right to privacy after they sold pictures to newspapers, writes Claire Cozens",
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2001/oct/05/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}