{
  "content": "Facebook's new advertising systems have come in for plenty of criticism - not least this weekend, when we wrote that it was spoiling Christmas thanks to its new \"Beacon\" feature. Beacon interacts with third party websites in order to add your commercial purchases into your news feed: think \"Bobbie just bought MIA's album from Amazon\", or whatever. Opinion seems divided on whether it's a good thing or a bad thing, although nobody seems particularly keen on the way it operates (if you don't opt out from a Beacon alert, it tells the world what you've been buying). It all comes back to the age old argument. Do users care about privacy - and should they? Duncan Riley at Techcrunch suggests that the competition argument is strong - \"if users don't like Facebook's current privacy and data practices they can always take their social networking time elsewhere\". Doc Searls, meanwhile, thinks that users need to act rather than wait for companies to change their mind. Privacy is a beast that gets a lot of coverage - there's a lot of moaning from pundits, experts and the media, including us at the Guardian - but millions of people seem to plough ahead regardless. Former BBC developer Ben Metcalfe, who is now consulting for MySpace, articulates the essential problem that the \"Facebook's doing bad things\" argument faces: that we've heard this all before when Facebook launched the news feed... and that users didn't care then. He says, rightly, that \"News Feed was also hated to begin with too\". These days, he points out, it is now the cornerstone of Facebook's value to people: it tells them what their friends are up to. People are happy to give up privacy when they get something back. That's true enough, but it's a leap of logic to imply that any feature which is hated by its users eventually becomes incredibly valuable to them. And it forgets that Facebook's news feed was tweaked in order to help people manage their privacy, through the complaints of hundreds of thousands of users. But things are changing in this sphere, and rapidly. We are in a new age of \"open privacy\", where many of us live our lives openly through the network and yet we want to control how much of us is out there. As a result, our approach to privacy is shifting. Hey, I use Facebook, Flickr, Twitter - all tools of openness - but I also want tools of control (my control). In a meeting in Oxford last week, LinkedIn founder Reid Hoffman said that \"privacy is an old man's game\". In many senses he's right - but in another, fundamentally important way, it is vitally important that independent critics such as the press continue to question the tampering of our rights. Especially where there is commercial value in doing so. Just because millions of people throw their privacy away, should we stop being concerned? I don't think so. Arguing about privacy is not like the proverbial tree falling in a forest: this stuff doesn't stop being important even if nobody is listening. But, unfortunately, arguments carry little weight unless people take notice of them.",
  "title": "Why should we care about privacy?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Facebook and Google are regularly criticised for invading user's private spaces - and yet millions of us are happy to keep using their services. Is it time we gave up arguing about privacy?",
  "id": "technology/blog/2007/nov/26/whyshouldwecareaboutpriva",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}