{
  "content": "On October 18, a junior civil servant at the child benefit offices in Tyne and Wear set in train a series of events which put 25 million people at risk of fraud, forced the resignation of the government's most senior tax collector, put in doubt the future of the government's ID card scheme, and reinforced doubts as to the competence Gordon Brown's administration. It is understood (though not yet absolutely established) that on that Thursday, two CDs, password-protected but containing the government's entire database of child benefit claimants, including the bank details of 7.25 million families, were sent from the HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) offices in Waterview Park, Washington, to the National Audit Office on Buckingham Palace Road, London. The government and police believe they were sent by a civil servant with IT know-how, unregistered, via the HMRC's internal postal system, operated by the private courier TNT. But they did not arrive. The official who sent the discs has not been named. Both HMRC's internal disciplinary procedure and a Metropolitan police inquiry are trying to establish the full story. It is not clear whether the official was acting alone or with authorisation. But Treasury officials and police officers believe it was a cock-up, rather than conspiracy. It was not until November 8, nearly three weeks later, that the discs were reported missing to senior HMRC management. The NAO wanted the information in order to run its own survey of child benefit payments, because auditors believed the HMRC's surveys were inadequate. But the NAO says it only wanted the names, child benefit numbers, and national insurance numbers of claimants; it did not need the address, bank accounts, or details of parents. Had they wanted those, they would have come to the HMRC offices; but instead the HMRC sent the lot. It was not the first time the data had arrived in this fashion. Alistair Darling told the Commons yesterday that in March the NAO received the database in the same way, in contravention of \"strict rules\". These breaches were \"inexcusable\". But they were not the only security lapses. The chancellor explained that in September the records of 15,000 Standard Life customers had been lost in transit from HMRC offices in Newcastle; in the same month a laptop and other materials were also lost. The Conservatives said HMRC had admitted that 41 laptops had been stolen during the 12 months to the end of September. The information, which came in response to a parliamentary question, also revealed that 16 of the laptops were stolen when HMRC offices were broken into. Darling did not know about the missing discs, though, until Saturday November 10, when his attention was dominated by the Northern Rock crisis. Within half an hour he told Brown and ordered an immediate weekend investigation. On Monday November 12 there were grounds for optimism: HMRC officials told Darling they believed the discs' route had been identified and they were likely to be found. But two days later they were not and Darling told Paul Gray, HMRC chairman, to call in the Metropolitan police. The police headed for the Washington offices. Detectives have not found the discs, but have told Darling there is no evidence - yet - that the data has got into the wrong hands or is being used illegally. Last Wednesday morning, the information commissioner, Richard Thomas, warned the House of Lords constitutional committee about breaches of the Data Protection Act. That afternoon, he was told by Jane Kennedy, financial secretary to the Treasury, of this most dramatic and far-reaching apparent breach. The next day Darling talked to Thomas and, the chancellor said, agreed \"appropriate remedial action\" be taken before the problem was made public. Gray, after a distinguished 38-year career in the civil service, offered to resign and Darling accepted that he should. Last week Darling told the UK Payments Association, the British Banking Association, and the Building Societies Association. He said the banks were \"adamant\" they wanted time to prepare for the furore. The banks are tracking transactions back to October 18. They have told Darling that the missing data in itself would not normally be enough to allow someone to be defrauded, because additional security checks are in place. \"But we have to recognise the increased risk caused by this missing data,\" Darling acknowledged. Kieran Poynter, chair of PricewaterhouseCoopers, is to investigate HMRC's security procedures. Darling wants an interim report by the end of the year and a full report in the spring. His inquiry will be carried out in consultation with the Independent Police Complaints Commission. On Monday Darling delivered a difficult and derided statement on Northern Rock to MPs. Twenty-four hours later he revealed details of a blunder which at least, temporarily, put the Rock's woes in the shade. The first hint came shortly after 11.30am, when the Treasury said Darling planned a statement on what was described as an \"operational\" matter. An hour later, with broadcasters getting wind of the story, Gray announced that because of a \"substantial operational failure\" he would be resigning. \"This is not the way I would have planned to organise my departure from HMRC,\" he said. Profile: Paul Gray Paul Gray's decision to quit as chairman of HM Revenue &amp; Customs after only eight months in charge was greeted with regret inside his department and among MPs and tax advisers who said he was a straight talker who would be missed. Alistair Darling said he was an honourable man and valued civil servant who had made plain his desire to accept responsibility for the loss of 7m child benefit records. Accountants who campaigned against many government tax reforms said Gray was keen to include their views. Gray began his civil service career at the Treasury in 1969 as an economist. Between 1988 and 1990 he was economic affairs private secretary to Margaret Thatcher.",
  "title": "'Substantial operational failure' then a frantic search",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "money/money",
    "society/socialexclusion",
    "society/society",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/immigration",
    "society/benefits"
  ],
  "lead": "On October 18, a junior civil servant at the child benefit offices in Tyne and Wear set in train a series of events which put 25 million people at risk of fraud, forced the resignation of the government's most senior tax collector, put in doubt the future of the government's ID card scheme, and reinforced doubts as to the competence Gordon Brown's administration.",
  "id": "politics/2007/nov/21/immigrationpolicy.socialexclusion",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}