{
  "content": "Back in the 1980s, I used to attend an annual press conference held by the data protection registrar, a mild-mannered gentleman called Eric Howe. It wasn't a sought-after assignment. As I recall, about a dozen journalists turned up, mainly from the computer trade press and the business pages. We asked questions about what the new watchdog was doing to stop junk mail, enjoyed a moderately boozy lunch, and rolled back to persuade our editors there was a story in all this nerdy stuff. At an equivalent event yesterday, the current holder of the job (now with the title information commissioner) packed out the biggest hall of the QEII conference centre with interested parties. In a week when many politicians were keeping their heads down, the event featured speeches from justice secretary Jack Straw, and a Jonathan Dimbleby-moderated debate between three front-bench parliamentary spokesmen. In 20 years' time, I suspect that whoever is acting as national data watchdog won't need a Dimbleby or a secretary of state to be sure of a full house. In what justice minister Michael Wills described yesterday as a database society, every word of the watchdog will be news in its own right. The technical reason for the transformation, of course, is the expansion of the office's powers to cover freedom of information as well as data protection. There was also a human factor: the current and third incumbent, Richard Thomas, has proved himself an astute political operator ready to question overall government policy rather than minutiae. His soundbite \"sleepwalking into a surveillance society\" will stick. At yesterday's conference, Jack Straw, who took the decision to combine responsibility for data protection and freedom of information (in Canada, often an exemplar in these matters, they are separate), spoke of the Information Commissioner's Office as potentially a \"great department of state\". We need to be careful of making it one. Although the office is partly funded by central government, it is not part of it. In one of the Thatcher era's more delightful constitutional fudges, it is answerable to parliament \u2013 and the commissioner can be dismissed only by one (unelected) arm of parliament, the monarch. Thomas's successor, Christopher Graham, will have enough on his plate without having to consider the office's constitutional role. Great questions about the retention of DNA, the secondary use of NHS data and routine data-sharing across the government, for a start. Let alone what emerges next from the Google skunk works. A debate needs to get going, however, because the current fudge may be unsustainable. One reason it worked \u2013 and, presumably, passed the Thatcher scrutiny \u2013 was that the data protection arm could be self-funding, through registration fees. As the office's workload extends more into freedom of information, and challenges of public policy, government funding will make up a bigger part of the budget. At yesterday's conference, the Tories' shadow justice secretary Dominic Grieve made encouraging remarks about how a future Conservative government would find the dosh to support this work. Future information commissioners should drink such largesse from a long spoon. There's no easy prescription, but here's an idea for debate. In the database society, the information commissioner will be one of the main bastions of defence against excesses by the state and private enterprise. Should not the post become a directly elected one? The issue already attracts a high level of public interest \u2013 the 1998 Data Protection Act is the best selling act of parliament \u2013 and this will surely increase. It's not impossible to envisage an election for information commissioner achieving a higher turnout than those for many Westminster constituencies. Such a mandate would attract ambitious political figures who fancy themselves as having an ear to the ground. Boris for commissioner?",
  "title": "Time to elect our information commissioner |Michael Cross",
  "lead": "Michael Cross: The information commissioner is one of our main lines of defence against the central state. We should be able to elect him",
  "tags": [
    "news/information-commissioner",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "politics/freedomofinformation",
    "technology/technology",
    "politics/politics",
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2009/may/14/information-commissioner-directly-elected",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}