{
  "content": "Dick Costolo has a problem. When the markets close on Tuesday, the Twitter boss will update investors for just the second time about the social-media company's financial fortunes. Last time, they didn't like what they heard. The eight-year-old company is almost ubiquitous in medialand. TV shows, celebrities and news organisations can't get enough of it. But the public has not shown as much enthusiasm. Last quarter, its first as a public company, Twitter added just 9 million new monthly active users worldwide, to reach a total of 241 million. Despite the company more than doubling its revenues, to $242.7m, investors took the low user growth as a sign that Twitter's appeal was fading. Its shares have sunk 30% since. As if tensions weren't high enough over the weekend, NBC Universal's head of research, Alan Wurtzel, handed Twitter another problem. Alongside Facebook \u2013 its far, far larger rival \u2013 Twitter has been pushing itself as a vital part of a new, social TV experience. Costolo has called Twitter the \"social soundtrack\" of TV, imagining a future where tweeting and watching will be a mainstream activity that benefits media companies by driving traffic to them. It's all part of a push to capture part of the $236bn global TV advertising budget. But \"it just isn't true\", Wurtzel told the Financial Times. \"I am saying the emperor wears no clothes. It is what it is. These are the numbers.\" Wurtzel said NBC had expected social media to have a major impact on viewership for the Sochi Olympic games. However, during the 18 days of coverage, just 19% of viewers posted about the Games on social media. For all the media's focus on Twitter, a show's ratings are still more likely to drive activity on social media rather than vice versa, Wurtzel said. Twitter is now a fifth the size of Facebook and not much larger than Instagram, the photo-sharing site Facebook bought for $1bn in 2012, which is still rapidly growing. Instagram now has 200 million monthly active users. WhatsApp, the social-messaging service Facebook bought for $19bn in February, has 500 million monthly active users. Nor are Twitter's users very engaged. More than half its monthly active users never send a single tweet. Forrester analyst Nate Elliott recently studied how often people like, share, and comment on the social posts of 50 leading brands and found that on average, brands' Instagram posts generated 58 times more engagement per follower than their Facebook posts, and 120 times more than their Twitter posts. Elliott said Twitter was working hard to court users, brands and small businesses, \"but if they can't get more people to join and get those people engaged, that won't matter\". He pointed to weibo, Chinese micro-blogging sites that started as Twitter knockoffs but now offer a host of other services including games and fully fledged profiles to draw in new users. \"Twitter needs to do the same,\" he said. \"Eight years ago it launched as a site offering 140-character messages and eight years later there is still not a lot else you can do there.\" Brian Wieser, senior research analyst at Pivotal Research Group, said Twitter was in for a \"pretty severe shellacking\" if it once again disappointed on growth. But he argued that investors may be looking at Twitter in the wrong way. \"It's a niche medium,\" he said. \"There's nothing wrong with that. You don't have to be for everyone. \"The problem is that far too many people have presumed that the service is going to have a far broader reach. I think that has, in part, been fuelled by the enthusiasm of management.\" But tech investors are not keen on niche. Growth is more highly valued than revenues. Even if it wanted to, Twitter would have a hard time convincing Wall Street that a small, influential niche was more valuable than a fast growing mass market messaging service. Twitter has been making moves to broaden its appeal and seems to be shrugging off arguments that it is a \"niche\" product. Ali Rowghani, the company's chief operating officer, is leading a revamp that so far has seen tweets redesigned to feature photos and videos more prominently and users' home pages morph to resemble something closer to Facebook. It is probably too early for such moves to show in this quarter's results. But when Twitter reports again in three months' time, growth had better have picked up. That or Twitter will have to change its message, and Wall Street's expectations.",
  "title": "Twitter awaits investors' verdict on faltering market performance",
  "lead": "As NBC head of research says 'the emperor wears no clothes', shares are down 30% since last disappointing quarter",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/nbc-universal",
    "business/investing",
    "business/business",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/instagram",
    "technology/whatsapp",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2014/apr/29/twitter-investors-market-performance-facebook-shares",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}