{
  "content": "Heaven forbid, you forget your phone. You need to make a urgent call, but all you have with you is an iPod Touch. Well, now you can use your iPod to call your Facebook friends. A new mobile application enabling Facebook friends to call each other for free is being released today, and an app for the iPad is thought to be only weeks away. The app \u2013 produced by internet telephony company Vonage and available for iPhone, Android devices, and the iPod Touch (the latter only allowing outbound calls) \u2013 lets users call Facebook friends using Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), providing both parties have downloaded the app. Users will eventually be able to make calls (both incoming and outgoing) through the iPad. Vonage Mobile for Facebook is free to download, free to use and works on Wi-Fi, 3G and 4G connections. Later versions of the app are expected to include premium functions and cater for the iPad, as well as encompassing instant messaging, SMS and the ability to make calls to mobile numbers directly from the application. But the release of this new app provokes an unavoidable question: how many of your Facebook friends would you feel comfortable being able to call your mobile phone? Facebook friends: an app to make you reimagine your \"friendships\"? At launch, there is no way to block selected Facebook friends from calling your mobile \u2013 so, theoretically, anyone you've decided to accept as a friend on Facebook can call your phone. As we know, plenty of people accept Facebook friend requests from relative strangers, or people to whom they wouldn't necessarily divulge their phone number. Michael Tempora, senior vice president of programme management and strategic initiatives at Vonage, said: \"I expect that's the case [that people don't want every one of their Facebook friends being able to call their mobile phone]. Certainly you always have ability to decline a call. Incoming calls will ring your phone and users still have the option to decline or accept. \"Future releases will also add a call block capability. A consumer can always choose not to download the application or de-friend someone on Facebook. This app adheres to all Facebook's rights and responsibilities.\" In other words, your downloading of the app and accepting of Facebook friend requests are taken as double confirmation that the people you befriend online are the people you'd be happy calling your phone. Online social networking, however, isn't as straightforward. That is, of course, unless you've adopted a personal Facebook policy readying for the day when your friends would be able to call your phone. Or preparing for a day when your child's Facebook friends can call their mobile phone. I suspect we've not heard the last of this, though VoIP telephony companies moving towards social networks is not a new thing. Usurping mobile networks? And what of the mobile networks we largely rely on to make calls to our friends? Is Vonage expecting a backlash? \"It's hard for me to speculate,\" Tempora said. \"Our customers will be delighted, Facebook users and iPhone users and Android users will be delighted. \"It's a paradigm changer for the consumer, and one that takes advantage of broadband networks. It's exciting for consumers and another step for us in using VoIP technology to deliver great value for consumers.\" Vonage advises users who don't have an unlimited data tariff to contact their provider to see what charges apply. Making a call using the app uses approximately 250kb a minute, a Vonage spokesman said, adding that the number of minutes sold on contract mobiles is going down while the amount of data sold and used is on the rise \u2013 this new app potentially warranting a data upgrade depending on usage. It's all about timing: a good day to bury bad news? The importance of this product for a company with a history of financial losses can be inferred from the launch date: the same date it will announce second quarter financial results. That said, Vonage posted a sharp increase in net income in its first quarter results, recording a jump of $8.7m (\u00a35.4m) year-on-year to $14m. Though the short-term forecast underlying these headline figures would no doubt prove disconcerting to company bosses, recruitment of new subscribers to the Vonage World plan was expected to continue dropping, and loss of existing subscribers was also expected to continue. \"It's certainly very important to us,\" Tempora said. \"But it's absolutely consistent with our vision that people should be able to call from anywhere they are using any broadband device that's convenient. This is an important first step for us but it's just the start, we expect in future to provide a wide range of apps. \"Going forward, we will expand on the launch to add additional communities \u2013 some already existing online \u2013 or social communities like family. We will also add device platforms \u2013 other mobile devices, PCs, Macs and premium services like the ability to call from Facebook to phone numbers as well as instant messaging components.\"",
  "title": "Forgot your phone? There's now a Facebook app for that",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/ipod",
    "technology/ipad",
    "technology/iphone",
    "technology/wifi",
    "technology/mobilephones"
  ],
  "lead": "VoIP company Vonage launches app that lets Facebook friends call each other for free",
  "id": "technology/2010/aug/04/facebook-app-phone-calls-vonage",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}