{
  "content": "There was a time when marketing teams would yawn at the mere mention of data, given the industry's love of emotional connections. But this could not be further from the truth when it comes to today's youth-focused brands. A hyper-connected, digital first youth audience is generating mindboggling volumes of data at the speed of light and about absolutely everything. It's now up to us (brands and brand guardians) to find the value in that data. According to business intelligence brand Domo, this is how much data is generated every minute of the day: \u2022 2.46m pieces of content shared on Facebook \u2022 277,000 tweets sent \u2022 72 hours of YouTube videos uploaded \u2022 216,000 new photos shared on Instagram \u2022 4,000,000 Google searches \u2022 61,000 hours of music on Pandora That's an incredible amount of data to sift through. The good news is that it's not necessary to understand and process every single piece of data from social channels, transactions, server logs and sales and so on. It's not always about big; instead it's about focusing on the youth aspects of data, and social data is a good place to start. For young people, social media plays the starring role in making brands relevant. Those making waves \u2013 Google, YouTube, Apple, Amazon \u2013 are reaping the benefits of placing social at the heart of their marketing activities. These brands also inherently cultivate data and use it to drive brand and product relevance. They've got the tools and they've cracked an approach to data that identifies and understands what motivates brand fans, their needs and how to solve these needs in order to be relevant, meaningful and drive social connections. Which is why brands should embrace the opportunity to harness data that will help shape stronger and more valuable communications with younger audiences. At Thinkhouse we've developed custom tools and deployed social listening services to extract the information we need. We use a combination of relevant quantitative data along with our teams' qualitative feedback to inform creative thinking. Key for all brands is to measure not just the output of data but the relevant outcomes in terms of message, sentiment and share of voice. Take Ben &amp; Jerry's: its social strategy centres on genuine engagement with its loyal fans. The brand (one of our clients) celebrates its community, whether that's by asking fans' input into new flavours, taking its ice cream van out on tour to meet them or talking about core business values with the same sense of fun its fans have grown to love. When Ben &amp; Jerry's took a dive into the comments fans were making in Europe, they noticed a trend in people calling for some US flavours to be made available in the UK. Leading with the line \"Well, the herd has spoken \u2026\" the brand gave the whole of Europe the chance to vote for a flavour to be re-introduced. Over 140,000 unique flavour votes were made across Europe, Ben &amp; Jerry's fans had their say and the winning flavour ('The Vermonster') made its way over from the US. Besides campaigns, data can also drive the creative output of brands. In 2013, we were tasked with bringing the Heineken Cup sponsorship beyond rugby fans and into to the vernacular. For the final, a data-driven, custom built social tracker tool documented and collected rugby fans' social conversations and reported the results in real time with infographics and video via social channels. The results were showcased with a 3D mapping projection and a kicking game that brought the excitement and colour of the tournament beyond the stadium. Another example happened at the Cannes Lions festival this year: Spotify launched a campaign built around music statistics billed as \"a social experiment to discover the songs that inspire and connect the world's greatest storytellers\". The company also uses data to enhance its service for users by suggesting new music based on what fans have listened to. One thing for certain is this: brands don't need data scientists to connect with youth audiences; it's about understanding the impact of the data and approaching data as both a science and an art. Emily Cramp is managing director at youth communications agency, Thinkhouse More on marketing \u2022 Messaging apps offer brands global reach and deeper engagement \u2022 How drinks brands are using tech to foster loyalty \u2022 What's the secret to meaningful marketing? Just mean it To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled 'Advertisement feature'. Find out more here.",
  "title": "Social data's pulling power: know what the youth wants",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Brands can harness social networking data to build better connections with young people",
  "id": "media-network/media-network-blog/2014/aug/13/social-data-youth-marketing-facebook-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}