{
  "content": "\"My grandfather owned a paint store in New York and he knew each of his customers,\" Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, told a group of small businesses gathered in London. Knowing both his trade and his neighbours well, Sandberg's grandfather would tell locals when their houses needed a lick of paint and know exactly what shade they needed. That level of personalised (and free) business promotion worked. \"My grandfather would never have been able to afford TV or radio adverts.\" Today, he would be on Facebook, she suggested. Sandberg listened to business owners at the event last week as they described how they have used the social network to grow their business. The workshop was part of the company's \"Boost Your Business\" tour, which is visiting five cities across the UK in July to meet small firms. The social network can help entrepreneurs reach specific audiences. But with 40m small and medium sized businesses worldwide on there, how do you make your business stand out? How often should you post? And do \"likes\" convert into sales? The Guardian Small Business Network went along to the event in London to find out. Nail the basics For all the millions of businesses firing ahead with their Facebook strategy and building likes and \"shares\", plenty are yet to join them. So where should a small business begin? Ciaran Quilty, SMB regional director for UK and Ireland at Facebook, says: \"The most important thing is to start with a page. A page gives you an instant mobile strategy. Every business owner I talk to knows the power of mobile. So just make creating a page your starting point.\" Small businesses must provide basic information such as a company phone number, email address and website. With so many people accessing Facebook on their mobiles, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) must ensure their website is optimised for mobile. \"Most importantly, think about who your customers are. It's not what you want to say to them, it's what they are interested in hearing about,\" Quilty says. Consider your content Businesses should post regularly, at least once a day, to keep engagement alive on their page. Posts can vary from product pictures and videos, to reposts of praise from happy customers and general chit-chat that is relevant to their audience. The difficulty for business owners is catching users' attention. \"If you're going to put the story of your business in the palm of someone's hand you could be between their best friend's birthday and the latest news story about Wayne Rooney,\" says Quilty. \"Spend enough time putting your business on Facebook. You've got to make it appealing. Think about making your story the best it can be.\" What should you post? At the Facebook event, SMEs revealed the content that worked best for them. They admitted that original DIY-style pictures and videos enjoyed more success than professional images. Tricia Cusden, founder of Look Fabulous Forever, a makeup brand for older women, says videos of her applying makeup at home are popular. One video of Cusden applying eye makeup has attracted 100,000 likes and more than 300 shares. \"That video cost us nothing,\" says Anna Cusden, director of Look Fabulous Forever director and Tricia's daughter. \"Tricia just sat one morning videoing herself doing her makeup; we'll continue to go down that route.\" The brand's Facebook page has 18,500 likes and while Look Fabulous Forever has yet to start tracking how much money it has made as a result of the site, Tricia Cusden says it's driving a substantial level of business. \"For us, it's been about brand building and community.\" Krystellie Fashion, which sells hair extensions and clothes online, started advertising on Facebook in February 2014, initially spending \u00a350. Today it spends anywhere between \u00a360,000 and \u00a3100,000 a month on Facebook adverts. The business uses its page to showcase new products and to post anything its target demographic of teenage girls and young women might be interested in \u2013 from a picture of a cocktail to a snap of Beyonc\u00e9. It, too, has discovered that simple, real-life images perform better than professional-looking photoshoots. \"We have found that selfies work for us more than a commercial look,\" says the brand's commercial director, Tony Pentland. \"We've found out what engages our community.\" Ankur Shah, founder of slipper brand Mahabis, agrees that expensive photoshoots aren't necessary. \"We've had complex photoshoots but the ones that work for us are lifestyle pictures with minimal background \u2013 a single product shot against a white background,\" he says. Another technique can be educational-style posts. \"We find that many people have not come across us before so we have to educate people for them to purchase,\" says Jamie Forshaw, commercial director at coffee producer Pact Coffee. \"We need educational-style posts as 'try it now' posts do not work. So we give them 10 reasons to try it, listing the benefits, and find that really works. Once people have clicked through on Facebook, we've pretty much got them.\" Create a Facebook ad campaign As well as posting your own content for free, Facebook allows small businesses to advertise on the platform, with prices starting at \u00a33.60. Once a free business page has been set up, SMEs can go through a step-by-step process of reaching an audience through targeted adverts. Businesses can reach audiences based on factors such as location, age, interests and so on. SMEs decide how much to spend on the ad before it's reviewed by Facebook and receive metrics of how well the ad is performing. Quilty says businesses can start by investing a small amount of money to test if it works for them. He recommends tracking how well their ads perform. \"Who saw your ad? Who engaged with your ad? Make sure you're getting a good return on investment. If it works, continue to invest more, if it doesn't, stop.\" The challenges Samantha Noble, marketing director at digital marketing agency Koozai, says due to the number of businesses on Facebook, it can be a challenge to stand out. As the social network doesn't enable brands to cap the number of times ads are shown to the same person, she says businesses should regularly change their ad message to prevent someone being shown the same ad multiple times. Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.",
  "title": "How to use Facebook to win customers",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "small-business-network/winning-new-business",
    "small-business-network/small-business-network",
    "business/business",
    "business/small-business",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "The social network can help entrepreneurs reach specific audiences. But with 40m businesses on the site, how do you make yours stand out?",
  "id": "small-business-network/2015/jul/10/how-use-facebook-win-customers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}