{
  "content": "The Guardian newspaper and the civil rights group Liberty won a landmark legal judgment today ending a blanket ban on public access to the tribunal that investigates complaints of unlawful phone tapping and invasive surveillance. Up until today all hearings of the investigatory powers tribunal (IPT) had been held in complete secret, even for sessions involving legal argument where there was no threat of national security being compromised. Liberty says no complaint has ever been upheld. Guardian Newspapers Limited (GNL) launched a bid last year demanding that the tribunal's proceedings be made public and open to reporters, arguing that the blanket ban was incompatible with principles of open justice and freedom of expression. The editor of the Guardian, Alan Rusbridger, said: \"Today's ruling by the investigatory powers tribunal is a significant victory for all those who campaign for open justice, freedom of expression and the right to a fair trail. Our challenge in this instance has been totally vindicated and is a major step forward for freedom of information.\" The IPT adjudicates on complaints by people placed under surveillance by the police, MI5 and others and was created after the then home secretary Jack Straw introduced the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000. Similar systems have existed since 1985. Today the tribunal was held in public for the first time in central London. It ruled that preliminary hearings in two complaint cases could also be made public. An 85-page judgment released to the public acknowledged that changing rule 9(6) of the IPT's rules, which asserted that all hearings should be held in secret, would have a significant impact on the future. \"The challenge to rule 9(6) and to most of the other rules governing the basic procedures of the tribunal have made this the most significant case ever to come before the tribunal,\" it said. However, the IPT panel, made up of Lord Justice Mummery and Mr Justice Burton, rejected demands that the whole proceedings should be heard in public. The panel also reaffirmed the \"neither confirm nor deny\" rule which means that the security forces do not have to comment on alleged covert surveillance practices. In tandem with the Guardian's move, Liberty launched a separate challenge against the IPT in conjunction with the Irish council of civil liberties and British Irish Rights Watch versus the UK government, and the individual case of Malcolm Kennedy versus the UK government. The preliminary hearing for both cases - which had the same counsel - was held last July in private. Liberty argued that the secrecy shrouding the hearings was a violation of the Human Rights Act 1998. Liberty director John Wadham, the solicitor for the complainants, welcomed the ruling but warned that the process remained \"too secret\". He said: \"The complaints procedure in these cases has always been hopeless ... however, this judgment begins to open up that process to those under surveillance and to the public, and hopefully this will lead to improvements.\" But he added: \"Unfortunately it is unlikely that we will see too many other hearings in public.\" The issue of surveillance powers has become increasingly vexed. In December last year one of Britain's most senior police officers, Jim Gamble, assistant chief constable of the national crime squad, told a parliamentary inquiry that there were concerns that law enforcement officers were unsure of their powers. He added that there were qualms within the communications industry that it could be liable to civil action by assisting in matters of surveillance.",
  "title": "Guardian wins open justice ruling",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/freedomofinformation",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/politics",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy",
    "law/open-justice"
  ],
  "lead": "The Guardian newspaper and the civil rights group Liberty won a landmark legal judgment today ending a blanket ban on public access to the tribunal that investigates complaints of unlawful phone tapping and invasive surveillance.",
  "id": "politics/2003/jan/23/freedomofinformation.uk",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}