{
  "content": "It is Sunday afternoon in the city of Shenzhen, China, and my friend Natasha and I are havering about whether to buy a Lidar robot. At 2600 yuan \u2013 approximately \u00a3250 \u2013 it's rather dear but still cheaper than anything we're likely to find back in the UK; and, as the stallholder tells us, it's on special offer for the event. Is he based here in Shenzhen, we ask? No, in Beijing, but like many of the other companies exhibiting, all of his factories are based in the city. In early April, Shenzhen hosted its first major Maker Faire. These events started out in 2006 in San Mateo, California, featuring a range of workshops, exhibitors, and demonstrations which all fell under the general umbrella of DIY culture. Many more followed in the US and overseas, both as large flagship events and as independently produced \"Mini Maker Faires\" hosted by local community groups (full disclosure: I've helped to run the Brighton events for the past two years). Playing host to a mix of the fanciful, the fantastic and the practical \u2013 previous events have included fire-breathing horses, soldering workshops, and performers who play music through massive modified Tesla coils \u2013 Maker Faires are a \"festival of invention, creativity and resourcefulness\" according to their founders at Maker Media; fun, noisy, intentionally family-friendly spaces which are a little more anarchic than the sometimes po-faced science fairs, and where something, somewhere, is usually being set on fire, or being rigged up to the internet, or both. Maker Faires also celebrate, and are foundational in shaping, the modern \"Maker Movement\" who comprise a \"well-spring of innovation, creative new products and producing value in the community\" as Maker Media describe them. Under this general ethos of \"maker culture\", Maker Faires also take on the characteristics and politics of their host regions. In 2015, London plays host to one of the flagship events in Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, a move which is both about showcasing British technological know-how and also driving the urban regeneration of East London, \"propelling forward our vision to cultivate a hotbed of tech talent on the site, creating thousands of jobs\", as Boris Johnson described it. The language of \"making\" has also been picked up by politicians to invoke hard work and productivity, with George Osborne describing the 2014 budget as one for \"the makers, the doers and the savers\". And so to Shenzhen, where things are made by the hundreds of thousands. China itself is one of the largest and most swiftly developing economies in the world, expanding the industrial capacity of its high-tech industries to act as the global economy's \"world factory\", answering Western desire for information and communications technology (ICT) consumer goods. In the past decade, China's ICT industry has been one of the most rapidly developing industrial sectors in the world, with ICT manufacturing concentrated in the Guangdong region where the city of Shenzhen sits, just across from Hong Kong. Shenzhen itself was China's first Special Economic Zone (SEZ), allowing it to receive the foreign investment enabling it to expand and develop massively over the past thirty years; one third of Guangdong's ICT manufacturing establishments are in Shenzhen, and are dominated by the processing of electronic components. The scale of the city is astonishing \u2013 one of the fastest growing cities in the world, its population is already 10 million strong. The cityscape is morphing around its growth, with the effect of driving through mile after mile of reality-bendingly enormous half-finished high-rise buildings being a little like being dropped inside a full-scale version of Minecraft. The city's history rippled into Maker Faire Shenzhen, which sat in the shadow of these high-rises. As expected, many of the classic Maker Faire features were in place: soldering workshops, talks by \"makers\", people looking awkward in Google Glass. Yet Maker Faires are often characterised by lots of DIY projects and arts-tech mash-ups, and these were conspicuously lacking. Instead, most stalls were occupied by fully realised electronics products \u2013 brainwave-controlled drones, robots, lots and lots of 3D printers \u2013 either ready for market, or in their beta stage and shipping later in the year. Glossy product catalogues and order sheets were everywhere. Representatives of local manufacturing firms also filled the fair, wandering through the stalls to see if anyone showcasing interesting prototypes wanted to get them mass-produced in bulk. These guys were interesting \u2013 a bridge between Shenzhen's 30-year old manufacturing hulk, and the recent shifts into what modern \"maker culture\" is becoming. One of the claims being made about this \"new industrial revolution\" of making is that some of those that start out boshing things together in their local hackspace will end up transforming from \"Maker to Market\", turning the technologies they've developed in grassroot community settings into commercial products. The process has also been linked to the emergent \"Internet of Things\" space, with claims made that the creativity and hardware skills found in maker communities might give rise to new products and prototypes; and is similar to how user innovators sometimes become entrepreneurs. It is also bloody difficult \u2013 not only the leap from hobbyist to founder, but the scramble into finance, mass manufacture, and supply chains, and from that perspective, plopping a Maker Faire down in the \"factory of the world\" makes a lot of sense. Even Chris Anderson, author of Makers: The New Industrial Revolution acknowledged in his keynote speech that he was moving some of the manufacturing component of his personal drone company to Shenzhen. The region's strengths in consumer electronics may also be particularly well-suited to the potential outputs of \"Maker to Market\" outputs, starting with simplified prototypes built on open hardware technologies such as Arduino's (as opposed to, say, Germany, whose manufacturing strengths lie in the sophisticated and specialised technologies of cars and \"mechatronics\", and whose production requires a highly skilled and costly labour force). Several hardware start-up accelerators have also set up shop in the city, including Haxlr8r and PCH's Highway 1, and they acknowledge that yes, Virginia, regional innovation systems exist: participants spend time in Shenzhen to learn about the manufacturing and supply chain networks in the city, before being returned to the Bay Area to pitch for funding. The international nature of the accelerator program is super-interesting if you like that sort of thing (which I do) \u2013 \"making\", in scarequotes, can sometimes be framed as a highly localised activity, taking place in sheds and hackspaces and basements. Yet the easy-to-use, flexible and low-cost technologies which underpin it \u2013 open hardware microcontrollers and 3D printers, for example \u2013 have their own materiality, and their own geography. The production of the Raspberry Pi is split between Wales and China, with its director, Eben Upton, describing in an interview with Tech Republic that logistical economics made it \"all but impossible\" to locate the manufacturing in the UK: 'All of the component inventory is in China, the whole global supply chain is set up to take components manufactured in factories in China, and send them to other factories in China, which assemble them into products and ship them to the west'. Thinking about the provenance of these technologies also raises questions about the work that goes into producing them, as well as the labour practices of the wider movement. Much of the rhetoric around the \"maker movement\" considers \"makers\" to be enthusiasts who love what they do with passion acting as some form of perpetual motion machine. And this flailing enthusiasm is a very real thing: I offer up the trip I took to the Huangqiangbei enormous electronics market as an example, where my colleagues and I voiced excited squeals of the type that only dogs can hear. But physical labour goes into producing the components that were in that market and in hackspaces around the world. Manufacturing practices in the Guangdong region have been put under the microscope in recent years: at the time of writing, upwards of 30,000 staff are striking at apparel factories in the Guangdong Province about unfair pay; and Foxconn, one of the sponsors of the Maker Faire and operator of the largest factory inside Shenzhen's city limits, has also been subject to interrogation about the working conditions in its factories. In \"Maker to Market\" spaces, things can get even messier. Several of the companies on this path depend on 'open innovation' models that allow them to engage with keen communities, providing ongoing feedback and mass customisation. This also allows customers to be used as a cheap form of R&amp;D; a practice common in the creative and culture industries, described by Miya Tokumitsu as \"Do what you love\" where a volunteer workforce works for passion and social capital rather than actual hard cash. Finally, Maker Faire Shenzhen raises questions about what \"maker culture\" actually is and how it manifests. The country has its own DIY \"maker\" scene and numerous makerspaces, each of which is shaped by its surroundings. Beijing Makerspace works with major companies including Sony and Samsung who open their research labs to them. In Shenzhen, the scene spreads out from Seeed Studio, an open hardware facilitation company founded by Eric Pan in 2008 which sits at the intersection of industrial manufacture and what \"maker culture\" looks like in that space. The company designs and produces its own open hardware technologies; acts as a distributor for a large number of \"maker\" brands including Arduino and Oomlout; and assisted in founding both Haxlr8r and the Chaihuo makerspace in Shenzhen. It also helps people make and distribute their own designs, filling a gap between the small companies starting out and the nearby factories which are still mostly set up for large scale production in the order of many hundreds of thousand units. All of the factors which make Shenzhen a competitive industry hub \u2013 cheap and available raw materials, manufacturing skills and facilities, entry points into supply chains \u2013 make it attractive to \"makers\"; and prior to the Maker Faire, the Dangerous Prototypes group ran a two-day HackerCamp in Shenzhen where participants learnt soldering skills in the city's cell phone repair school. But \"making\" and the wider dynamics of innovation have different textures in this space. At the ground level, the entry-level electronics which are 'low cost' to foreign consumers such as Arduino microcontroller, can be costly for domestic Chinese enthusiasts, although their cheaper clones can be found easily on the e-commerce site Taobao. Online spaces for collaboration can also shift; in 2013 access to GitHub, the collaborative repository for open source code was temporarily blocked. At the wider level, the manufacturing networks have become adept in the \"shanzhai\" methods of \"absorbing, adapting, prototyping and market testing\" new products at rapid speed, as examined by the Hacked Matter research hub in Shanghai. China itself has been termed an \"absorptive state\" which is getting better and better at combining its own local capabilities and infrastructure with foreign technologies and knowledge. The \"maker\" identity can be framed by flattened shared qualities and values, working with technologies whose provenance is not always transparent. But nothing in technology is so simple or so isolated. Maker Faire Shenzhen shines a light on the externalities and ecosystems of making itself: the political regimes which regulate; the infrastructures which support it; the forms of work that drive it; and the culture and history that shape it.",
  "title": "Making in China: Maker Faire Shenzhen highlights the global politics of the 'maker movement' | Georgina Voss",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "science/science",
    "world/china",
    "technology/startups",
    "business/manufacturing-sector",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/3d-printing",
    "technology/opensource",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Georgina Voss:| MakerFaire embodies grassroots DIY culture; Shenzhen\nis the world centre of mass manufacture. What happens when they meet?      ",
  "id": "science/political-science/2014/apr/24/making-in-china-maker-faire-shenzhen-global-politics-maker-movement",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}