{
  "content": "Hedi Slimane's Saint Laurent is adored on social media \u2013 with pictures of last night's show spiking on Instagram way before Slimane himself, wearing trademark skinny jeans, came out for his finale. Here's five reasons this collection was liked by the iPhone-touting hoards. The outerwear Thanks to its rockabilly influence, this collection had coats galore. All knee-length and with a fit half a size too big, they looked like updates of Albert Finney's wardrobe for 1960's Saturday Night, Sunday Morning. The mohair number, worn with leopard brothel-creepers and shades, was a favourite. The front row Sure, Selma Hayek and Miles Kane were there. But the real global stars were G Dragon and Taeyang from Big Bang, K-Pop's biggest band. Their legions of fans in native South Korea and Japan made sure the two of them \u2013 with Taeyang in a checkerboard biker jacket, and G Dragon with blue hair \u2013 were Instagram's stars of the Saint Laurent show. It's only rockn'roll but he likes it Slimane has made rockn'roll style his own \u2013 leaving other designers for dust. Most of the models here were actually boys in bands, and the show was soundtracked by Froth. His really rockn'roll looks, then, like this pink sparkly blazer, frilled shirt and those skinny slacks, are the first to be picked up, just waiting for the next skinny boys in bands Slimane discovers. A bit of sparkle goes a long way The model wearing look 36 might still be seeing flashes this morning. This green sequined jacket is the kind of piece that gets photographed by everyone present at a show and reposted endlessly before it has even left the catwalk. Think the magpie's fascination with shiny things. It's similar. Next season's look, now Slimane's collection hit its best note with the final look. The last exit, as it's known in fashion speak, summed up both a collection and a mood. That three-quarter length tweed coat, longline jacket, red tartan scarf and a peek of breton looked appetising, like it could work off the catwalk and IRL. Which, really, is what every designer wants isn't it?",
  "title": "Why Hedi Slimane's Saint Laurent menswear collection is an Instagram hit",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "fashion/saint-laurent",
    "fashion/mens-fashion",
    "fashion/fashion-weeks",
    "fashion/fashion",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "fashion/hedi-slimane",
    "technology/instagram"
  ],
  "lead": "Lauren Cochrane: The Saint Laurent Paris menswear show was all over social media before it had even finished. Time to take a look at what makes the collection so shareable",
  "id": "fashion/fashion-blog/2014/jan/20/hedi-slimane-saint-laurent-menswear-collection-instagram",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}