{
  "content": "A succession of public reports characterised 2011 as the year of the security breach. The studies showed both public and private sector organisations how decisions made in the world of IT can affect communities in the real world. Already in this year there have been enough high profile hacking attempts to make 2011 look like an easy ride, with each new breach demonstrating that basic network security is not a problem that IT departments should be left to deal with alone. Scan the papers and the reality is crystal clear: confidential hospital patient records find their way on to the internet; civil servants are losing their laptops and smartphones along with the sensitive corporate data stored on them. These are real-world examples of security breaches with real legal, financial and reputational consequences. The government's drive for public services to be delivered \"digital by default\" brings increased security risks. Systems designed for a previous era are exposed to new attacks as they are opened up to provide new online services. Whilst information has evolved to become more interconnected, the focus on security has too often lagged behind. Tackling this problem is more than any one individual step, rather a continuous process. It cannot simply be a firewall or a piecemeal approach which will leave loopholes for hackers to exploit. Systems must be made secure by design \u2013 not only to address today's risks, but also to adapt easily to tomorrow's. The threat is constantly evolving and increasing in sophistication. Security must be properly considered at the outset. It is not enough to just try and prevent threats; some could get past this process. Prediction and detection involved flagging abnormal and likely malicious behaviours before they impact on a council or local organisation. Security intelligence should be used to find and close gaps or vulnerabilities before they are exploited. All this can appear daunting. However, the following steps can help public sector organisations learn where they stand and how they can get started. Top tips: cyber security in the age of \"digital by default\" \u2022 Elevate security to board level. Cyber security is not just the chief information officer's burden to bear. The risks and impact must be faced by the chief executive's whole management team. \u2022 Undertake an exercise to understand your organisation's most valuable assets, including systems and data. Identify and evaluate the risks to those assets. \u2022 Review access to those assets \u2013 especially those with system administrator privileges \u2013 and connections to systems not envisaged when they were originally designed. \u2022 Assess the awareness of all staff to the risks and the behaviours in dealing with valuable assets. Check the software used on systems and endpoints. Is it up to date? Are patching and compliance processes effective? \u2022 Security doesn't stop at an organisation's walls. The security culture must extend outside and best practices established with suppliers and other public sector departments. Chris Nott is public sector software technical leader at IBM UK and author of Cyber Security: Protecting the Public Sector This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Join the local government network for more comment and analysis and the latest jobs",
  "title": "Under attack: councils must improve their digital security",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "society/society",
    "society/localgovernment",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/hacking",
    "public-leaders-network/local-government"
  ],
  "lead": "2011 was a year of security breaches, and 2012 has already seen a rise in hacking attacks. How can your council prepare?",
  "id": "local-government-network/2012/apr/17/local-government-digital-security-hacking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}