{
  "content": "Who knew that the Chinese search market was this interesting? After Google's bombshell announcement last week that it might quit the country, now the top dog in Chinese search, Baidu, is suing its US domain registrar after hackers redirected its traffic to a site hosted by the \"Iranian Cyber Army\". The suit accuses registrars Register.com of \"gross negligence\" in the incident that left Baidu users unable to access the site for about four hours. The suit states: Baidu's account was vandalized so that Internet traffic intended for Baidu and accessed through the 'baidu.com' domain name was misdirected to a web page depicting an Iranian flag and a broken Star of David. ... In addition, Baidu was locked out of its account - thus precluding the re-routing of traffic to Baidu's website. The group did not break into Baidu's systems to deface its homepage, a popular exploit earlier in this decade against unpatched web servers. Instead, the Iranian Cyber Army simply changed the routing information, the DNS details, to redirect traffic to a site it hosted. The same group used the same exploit against popular micro-blogging service Twitter last December. In that attack, someone using \"set of valid Twitter credentials\" accessed the company's account at their DNS provider and changed the routing information, according to Tom Daly, chief technology officer at Dyn, a New Hampshire-based DNS company. It's entirely possible that the Iranian Cyber Army didn't use any sophisticated technical hack but simply engaged in a little social engineering to gain the account details. A little bit of phishing as is common to part the credulous from their banking details might have done the trick. If they did the same thing in the redirection of traffic from Baidu, the \"gross negligence\" might not at Register.com but rather by one of Baidu's own employees. UPDATE: Register.com has released this statement about the suit: The lawsuit filed by Baidu.com is completely without merit. Register.com takes cyber-terrorism very seriously and we are working closely with federal law enforcement officials who are investigating this crime as well as the recent similar attacks on Twitter and Google. Register.com continuously works to enhance its security processes and to safeguard customers from these increasingly sophisticated attacks.",
  "title": "Chinese search giant to sue US company over hack",
  "lead": "Chinese search leader, Baidu, is suing a US company, alleging \"gross negligence\", after pro-Iranian hackers redirected traffic to their own site",
  "tags": [
    "technology/searchengines",
    "world/china",
    "technology/twitter",
    "world/iran",
    "technology/hacking",
    "world/asia-pacific"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2010/jan/20/searchengines-china-baidu-hack",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}