{
  "content": "Justin Cooke, Topshop's former marketing chief turned digital entrepreneur, launched a new \"multi-sensory social network\" on Thursday which combines photos, music and moods. Tunepics, which is available to download for free for iPhone and iPad, encourages users to post 'moments' - combination of a soundtrack alongside their favourite pictures which Cooke says is \"like dynamite\". Cooke has already attracted celebrity endorsements from Kate Bosworth, Paul Smith, Will.i.am and Jamie Oliver who have all posted to the platform, along with fashion brands Asos, AllSaints and Airbnb. Users snap or upload an image, select a tune from more than 35 million preview clips on iTunes and then spin the \"emotion wheel\" \u2013 a rainbow disc reminiscent of an old vinyl record \u2013 to choose from 16 rainbow coloured emotions designed to reflect the way the user feels about an image before they upload and share on Tunepics. Cooke led several ambitious digital projects at Topshop, including a Christmas campaign featuring Kate Bosworth 'personally' addressing those signed up to the brand's mailing list (Bosworth was recorded saying each of the top 100 names on the list). He believes the potential success of Tunepics will be in the combination of two key modern behaviours: a love of uploading images and of downloading and discovering new tunes. More than 500m pictures are uploaded to the internet every day, and more than 100m songs are downloaded every week. Tunepics, designed by consultancy company Innovate7 and built by AKQA, capitalises on these two prolific digital habits, says Cooke. \"Sometime music can express things you can't say or convey and for some people articulating the moment or how they feel is not an easy thing,\" he explains. The idea came to him three years ago during an autumn walk; he photographed colourful autumn leaves while listening to Paolo Nutini, and had \"a lightbulb moment\" when he moved to pick out a song called Autumn Leaves. Cooke's attention to detail is apparent as he talks through the features of the platform: the smooth transition between previewing a song clip to buying it from iTunes, the emotion wheel that offers more than a simple 'like' for an event, and instant autoplay of the music clips for \"a generation who don't want to wait\" (advice he was given by Will.i.am when he showed the musician an early version of the app) . Cooke was also a vice president at Burberry where he helped launch Burberry Acoustic, a music project designed to shed light on emerging British talent. \"Often technology companies make products where they are focusing primarily on the tech\", says Cooke, who has used hi experience of the fashion and luxury goods industries to create a certain design sensibility around Tunepics. Comparisons with Instagram would not be unwelcome, Cooke says although he's keen to stress that Tunepics came from a desire to create a platform that allowed for a different way that users could express themselves. \"Justin has an extraordinary vision of what the future looks like and the ability to connect with people in a time when the world is primed for digital disruption,\" said Joanna Shields, chair of Tech City UK and UK ambassador for digital industries. \"London needs more digital leaders with technology fuelled success stories like his; I am confident that Tunepics is going to be one of them.\" Cooke has ambitious plans for the network and says he has resisted moving to San Francisco's tech scene. \"It's the first British social network - built, made and designed in the UK,\" he enthuses, \"It's really exciting\".",
  "title": "Tunepics: the photo app that lets you add mood music from iTunes",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/apps",
    "technology/photography",
    "technology/digital-music-and-audio",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/itunes"
  ],
  "lead": "Launched by the former Burberry digital creative Justin Cooke, Tunepics has already lured Kate Bosworth, Paul Smith and Jamie Oliver on board. But can it be the next Instagram? By Ami Sedghi",
  "id": "technology/2014/may/22/tunepics-instagram-app-justin-cooke-topshop-burberry",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}