{
  "content": "Why has Facebook spent a colossal $19 billion to buy US-based mobile messaging app WhatsApp? Here are the six reasons why the deal will make strategic sense in the long term: 1. The target is reaching 5.6 billion smartphone users by 2019 In the prepared statement for the acquisition, Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg said: \"WhatsApp is on a path to connect one billion people. The services that reach that milestone are all incredibly valuable.\" This is undeniably true, in the short term. WhatsApp is adding 1 million new users a day and already has 450 million monthly active users (MAUs). At this growth rate, it could reach the 1 billion MAU mark by early 2016 (allowing for some new users not becoming MAUs). Zuckerberg himself takes the more conservative view, at least for public consumption, that WhatsApp will gain 1 billion MAUs in the next five years. But the ultimate target is significantly larger. Industry estimates for global smartphone adoption is that there will be 5.6 billion smartphone users by 2019. As WhatsApp co-founder Jan Koum previously said: \"Our goal is to be on every smartphone. Every single one of them.\" In a conference call discussing the deal with industry analysts, Koum added: \"Five billion people will have a smartphone and we will have a potential for 5 billion users to give us money.\" 2. The major growth will be in emerging economies, where WhatsApp is well-established For Facebook to grow significantly beyond its current 1.23 billion MAUs, it needs widespread take-up in the emerging economies. Zuckerberg said in the conference call that WhatsApp is a \"clear leader in Europe, Latin America, India and Asia\". WhatsApp recently said that it had gained 35 million MAUs in India alone, demonstrating its appeal to users in the regions Zuckerberg is keen to target. What is often overlooked, however, is that many of the new users for mobile communications will be accessing the services by low-cost feature phones, not smartphones. Facebook itself is well aware of this consumer need. It has a dedicated service for these users, Facebook For Every Phone, but this reported only 100 million MAUs in July 2013. WhatsApp, with its engineering-led approach, is available on a wide range of devices (iPhone, BlackBerry, Android, Windows Phone and Nokia) and has a good reputation for working effectively in areas where mobile coverage is poor. It also has deals with mobile operators whereby the carriers offer their own customers low-cost data packages for use with WhatsApp. These are all particular strengths for growth in the emerging nations. 3. The deal pre-empts Asian messaging apps from closing Facebook out of the emerging nations Facebook is confronted by three large and well-funded messaging providers based in Asia, which represent next-generation, mobile-native social networks: KakaoTalk, Line and WeChat. They are all expanding aggressively into the same regions where Facebook needs to grow. If any one of these had succeeded in buying WhatsApp, it would have been a strategic disaster for Facebook, denying it solid expansion potential across dozens of key markets. 4. It fits with Zuckerberg's mobile strategy of standalone mobile brands Zuckerberg has taken the view that Facebook does not have to be the brand for all of Facebook's mobile operations. The Instagram app, which Facebook owns, still looks to consumers as a separate entity. Even the Facebook Messenger app, Facebook's own equivalent of WhatsApp, was rebranded simply as Messenger last year and the latest Facebook app is named Paper. 5. These brands are diversifying Facebook group and its revenues The mobile brands are making Facebook effectively into a virtual group of companies. They are diversifying Facebook's total user base by appealing to groups of users who may be disinclined to join or regularly participate in Facebook, such as teenagers. They can also run their own business models. This diversifies Facebook's mobile revenues, just as these become increasingly critical to the company's finances. Where Facebook itself has successfully monetised via advertising on its own mobile apps, Zuckerberg said in the conference call: \"I don't personally think ads are the right way to monetise messaging systems.\" This reconfirms the current business model for WhatsApp of charging a small annual subscription fee, based on the two founders' antipathy towards advertising. (The company was already reported to be in profit before the Facebook deal.) However, it also does not rule out adding new revenue streams in the future, perhaps charging differently for tiers of services or features. 6. WhatsApp co-founder and new Facebook board member Jan Koum is a mobile guru Koum and Zuckerberg have struck up a good relationship since Facebook originally proposed buying WhatsApp, in 2012. Zuckerberg says Koum has been a \"valuable thought partner\". With Koum joining the Facebook board, he can provide a complementary vision for mobile, taking up a Jony Ive role to Zuckerberg's Steve Jobs. Colin Donald is a director at mobile messaging and social TV industry analysts Futurescape. Get more articles like this sent direct to your inbox by signing up for free membership to the Guardian Media Network \u2013 this content is brought to you by Guardian Professional.",
  "title": "Six reasons why Zuckerberg's $19bn for WhatsApp is a steal for Facebook",
  "lead": "Colin Donald says Facebook's colossal $19bn purchase of US-based mobile messaging app WhatsApp is a shrewd move",
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "media-network/mobile",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/mark-zuckerberg",
    "technology/whatsapp"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media-network/media-network-blog/2014/feb/21/zuckerberg-facebook-whatsapp-mobile",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}