{
  "content": "The small but pretty church hall in the Buckinghamshire village of Waddesdon is bedecked with holly, a forest of Christmas trees and piles of presents big enough to suit a giant. It could be a jolly night for the local rotary were it not for the full camera crew, studio lighting bright enough to blind a reindeer and an equally dazzling line-up of celebrities. But this event won't be a TV Christmas special on BBC1 or Channel 4. Presenter Phillip Schofield along with celebrity chefs Heston Blumenthal, Rachel Allen and Tom and Henry Herbert, better known as the Fabulous Baker Brothers, are here to film a live special for Waitrose, streamed via YouTube and the retailer's website. Behind the audience, partly made up of local shoppers, award winners and influential food bloggers, are Waitrose staff, crammed into a small cupboard at the back of the hall ready to answer customer online queries prompted by the show. The expensive-looking event is the upscale supermarket's latest sally in the battle to win social media fans as Twitter, Facebook and YouTube play an increasingly important role in winning shoppers. This year, advertising on social media has grown nearly threefold in Britain to \u00a3242.5m, according to figures from the Internet Advertising Bureau. Rupert Ellwood, head of marketing at Waitrose, says: \"We see social media as a way of opening the brand up to new people who might not necessarily engage with us in other ways. They are potentially younger people who have a different lifestyle.\" People who engage with brands via social media spend between 20% and 40% more with the brand than other customers, according to global consultancy Bain &amp; Company. Of course, that number is partly self-fulfilling, because shoppers who like and use a brand are the most likely to \"like\" it on Facebook, follow it on Twitter or collect images of its products on Pinterest. Such is the power of the internet that the likes of Marks &amp; Spencer and Argos, as well as Waitrose, have kept shoppers interested in their Christmas ads using social media competitions. John Lewis kicked off its festive campaign by creating a small forest on London's South Bank and an unbranded trailer on ITV to help publicise its Twitter hashtag #sleepingbear before the launch of its \u00a31m Disney-style ad. It has racked up a heady 10m views online, more than 10 times the number of its nearest competitors. Meanwhile, Sainsbury's this week said it was ditching celebrity chefs in favour of food bloggers including Jack Monroe, writer of A Girl Called Jack. Ellwood admits: \"In future bloggers could become as influential in food as they are in the fashion industry and to a degree they already are. We wouldn't want to do a joined-up social media campaign without engaging bloggers.\" But he believes there is also an opportunity to attract shoppers with the kind of programme they cannot find on mainstream media. \"Apart from programmes like the Great British Bake Off there is not a huge number of quality food programmes on TV. We have a massive line-up of talent that wants to engage with us and it gives us the opportunity to give something to customers that is unique and a step ahead,\" said Ellwood. David Moth of digital marketing hub Econsultancy says it reflects a growing trend for brands to create their own events, experiences and editorial content to attract attention online. Whether it's Red Bull backing a parachute jump from the edge of space or Topshop livestreaming its fashion shows or ASOS publishing a fashion mag, they are looking at ways to move beyond advertising to interact more \"naturally\" in social media spaces. \"People have realised that buying ads on Facebook or Twitter can only get you so far,\" he said. Ellwoodsays Waitrose isn't just trying to encourage people to click on a link to its website and buy something but to build loyalty and understanding of the brand. \"We are looking for long-term relationships,\" he said. \"Anybody more engaged with the brand is likely to spend more.\" Meanwhile, with 65% of Waitrose shoppers expected to have a smartphone by next year, the supermarket would be foolish to ignore social media. Research suggests that mobile users are more likely to use social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter to guide them around the internet than search engines such as Google. More than a third of the UK population visits Facebook every day, with 83% of those users \u2013 some 20m people \u2013 using a smartphone or tablet to check their updates. That's typically double the audience of a TV show such as The X Factor, which retailers spend thousands of pounds to advertise with.",
  "title": "Waitrose goes live online with Heston Blumenthal",
  "lead": "Supermarket hopes social media will 'open the brand to new people', while Sainsbury's uses food bloggers to push message",
  "tags": [
    "business/waitrose",
    "business/retail",
    "business/johnlewis",
    "business/business",
    "business/j-sainsbury",
    "business/supermarkets",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "lifeandstyle/hestonblumenthal",
    "lifeandstyle/chefs",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "business/2013/dec/17/waitrose-live-online-heston-blumenthal",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}