{
  "content": "Listen to the editor of the Daily Telegraph talking about his job and a day stuffed full of \"data-influenced decisions\". Here's a news story, breaking fast. Do you choose video, running blogs, simple digital or even simpler print to run it big? What's trending on Chartbeat, Google and Twitter (which Tony Gallagher calls the new Press Association)? The world of Bill Deedes, and even of Max Hastings, seems very far away. When Gallagher looks across his huge newsroom, he can see the \"data analysis team sitting at its heart\". His \"digital developers and designers are the new rock stars\". And their audiences, arriving minute by minute, are crucial. You know which stories are being followed most avidly: they're tracked on flickering screens, a top 10 of immediate interest. You know \"whether we're meeting our targets\". And (perhaps slightly more menacingly) you can mount quarterly reviews of \"how our journalists are faring\". That, among other things, means discovering how intensively stories are read \u2013 through to the end, or abandoned half-way? It means collecting response rates by the thousand, seeing how \"engaged\" their followers are; it means holding popularity, and thus viability, up to the light. And, of course, because Gallagher is a shrewd operator, all these factors are gathered together under the editor's banner (as he gently explains in platform lectures). It seems crude maths isn't welcome on this voyage. Nonetheless, there's reason to pause. Newsrooms have growing access to digital trendings. Journalists have almost simultaneous verdicts on the job they're doing \u2013 far faster than in any other relevant medium. You may discover which TV shows ruled the roost when Barb issues figures the morning after. But online, in the thick of the news action, the audience never sleeps. It's much akin to Graham Norton's red chair. Bore me five seconds more with your views on welfare reform and you'll be clicked off in mid-stream. Join up those pieces and answers emerge. Why is Twitter so dominant in journalists' lives? Because it's instantly there and instantly gone. Existence in 140 characters, no time for tedium. Why has celebrity coverage seeped out of the tabloids into everything but the FT? Because that's what Times, Telegraph and Guardian readers want: just look at their running top 10s. Why is so much reader comment vitriolic going on pure troll terrorism? Because the arguments are often geared to provoke massive reactions. Whatever happened to analysis, to straightforward, detailed explanation of issues? Gone, because detail, straightforwardly, doesn't make the menu. Who wants necessary complexity when optional abuse comes much more easily?",
  "title": "Never mind the analysis \u2013 abuse and vitriol are trending on Twitter",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/telegraphmediagroup",
    "media/tony-gallagher",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "Peter Preston: Newsrooms with one or both eyes on digital trends are going to produce what provokes an online reaction. But where does that leave detail and complexity?",
  "id": "media/2013/jun/02/never-mind-analysis-abuse-is-trending",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}