{
  "content": "News of the World royal editor Clive Goodman remains in custody at Charing Cross police station this morning, although one of the two men arrested with him has been released on bail. Goodman and two other men were arrested early yesterday in south London by police investigating allegations that members of Britain's royal household - including Prince Charles - may have had their mobile phone calls intercepted. A 50-year-old man, whose identity is unknown but is not thought to be a News of the World employee, was bailed to return to a central London police station in September. But a spokeswoman for the News International newspaper confirmed that Goodman remained in custody, along with another unnamed man. Last night, Scotland Yard said a 48-year-old man was arrested at his home in Putney - referring to Goodman - along with two other men arrested in Sutton, one aged 35 and the 50-year-old. They were arrested under section 1 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000. It later emerged police had searched the News of the World's offices in Wapping, east London. Police said they had opened an investigation after three members of staff at Prince Charles's Clarence House residence alerted the Metropolitan police's royalty protection department. The investigation by Scotland Yard's anti-terrorism branch is believed to focus on possible interceptions of voicemail messages over a lengthy period and the implications for the safety of the royals that may arise from the security breach. But after initial probes, police said the investigation goes beyond the royal household and may include other public figures, which reports today speculate could include MPs and celebrities. A Clarence House spokesman said last night they would not be commenting on the arrests. It would not be the first time that the royal family has been the subject of telephone tapping. Prince Charles, his wife, the Duchess of Cornwall, and Diana, Princess of Wales, have all been unwitting subjects of phone interceptions in the past. In 1993, a tape of an intimate late-night phone call between the prince and the duchess was made public. And Diana's \"Squidgygate\" conversation to a mystery man - later identified as her close friend James Gilbey - was made public a year earlier. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Royal phone tap: one man released",
  "lead": "10.15 update: News of the World royal editor Clive Goodman remains in police custody this morning, although one of the two men arrested with him has been released on bail. By Julia Day",
  "tags": [
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "media/clive-goodman",
    "media/phone-hacking"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2006/aug/09/newsoftheworld.pressandpublishing1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}