{
  "content": "Research into the content of more than five million tweets has given an insight into the relationship between Twitter and mainstream media outlets. It appears that Twitter storms, as reported by newspapers, are not always what they seem. The research suggests that papers sometimes \"reveal\" storms that do not, in terms of Twitter's traffic, deserve the description. Many stories described as Twitter storms in the press generated only a relatively low number of tweets in the first place. The analysis, by the business information company Precise, shows that there is a complex interaction between social and mainstream media. It is certainly not a straightforward case of cause and effect. Nor is it always a simple matter of the sheer volume of social media comments driving the mainstream news agenda. Precise's research report, 2011 - The year of the perfect Twitter storm, also illustrates that the speed and unpredictability of Twitter is a challenge to mainstream media. By looking at 25 stories claimed to be Twitter storms, the researchers have identified three different types: The perfect Twitter storm Definition: a story that starts on Twitter and through a feedback loop with traditional press generates a significant amount of attention across a broad audience. Best examples: the Blackberry email outage, the Topman T-shirt slogan controversy and the John Lewis Christmas TV ad campaign The storm in a teacup Definition: a story that generates a comparatively small amount of interest on Twitter but is picked up by a large number of mainstream media outlets. The challenge that traditional news channels face in trying to match the speed with which Twitter can break a news story is that they sometimes anticipate a storm that never really develops. Best example: the row over the allegedly depressing Aviva promotions during the ad breaks of ITV's Downton Abbey. The Twitter-only storm Definition: in its purest form, this is a story that sparks a very significant volume of messages on Twitter but is largely of interest only to a specific group and receives little or no interest from mainstream media. Best example: the vast teenage Twitter search for the lost sunglasses of One Direction boy band member Harry Styles. Storms aside, according to Twitter's own statistics, the revolt in Egypt was the most tweeted about news story of the year. The full Precise report, with more details and an explanation of its methodology, is available here in pdf",
  "title": "When is a Twitter storm a real Twitter storm?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/newspapers",
    "technology/blackberry",
    "tv-and-radio/downton-abbey",
    "media/ITV",
    "world/egypt"
  ],
  "lead": "Research reveals the complex relationship between social and mainstream media",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2011/dec/09/twitter-social-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}