{
  "content": "Prince Charles is to tell the Queen that Prince Edward must choose between his television production business and his public duties, as the furore over the filming of Prince William at university descended into a public row between the royals. As relations between the brothers plunged to a new low, St James's Palace publicly criticised Prince Edward over the behaviour of his production company, Ardent. In unusually blunt terms, a spokeswoman said Prince Charles was \"very disappointed\" about the situation. Other officials said he was \"incandescent\". Prince Charles expressed his concern to his younger brother in a telephone call yesterday afternoon, and is expected to make his views known to the Queen. The debacle also spells trouble for Edward's production company. The deal to produce the A to Z of Royalty for a California-based entertainment network is understood to be keeping Ardent afloat. Even before the row, the series had little support in the royal family. Only the Duke of Edinburgh agreed to be interviewed on camera. \"It was a particularly trashy deal and everyone was against it except his father,\" one royal aide said. The row is threatening to undermine the carefully nurtured relationship between St James's Palace and the media, which has agreed to respect William's privacy at university. But the antics of Ardent in William's first week at St Andrews is embarrassing for the royals, who will find it hard to dictate terms when a family member is seen to break them so flagrantly. Andrew Neil, the rector of St Andrews, said the university felt \"badly let down\" by Prince Edward. The agreement was now in danger: \"We knew when we were doing that that somebody would break it at some stage. But for it to be broken by a company owned by his own uncle, well, you just couldn't make it up.\" St James's Palace did not disguise the prince's exasperation with his younger brother. Officially, Charles was said to be \"disappointed, very much so, especially as other media organisations complied with the spirit of the agreement\". Unofficially, sources said that the prince was furious. He raised the matter twice: on Monday when the Ardent film crew were first asked to leave and again on Wednesday. An apology from Edward was said to have come in a call to Stephen Lamport, Charles's private secretary, rather than directly to his elder brother. Charles and Edward have been at odds since the younger prince's wife Sophie, a PR consultant, made indiscreet remarks to a reporter posing as a Middle Eastern sheikh. But Charles's concerns about the couple's business interests were overruled by the Duke of Edinburgh. Ardent compounded the anger by attempting to ride out the storm yesterday. Malcolm Cockren, chairman of Ardent, said: \"For the record the filming in St Andrews on Wednesday by Ardent Productions was arranged with the full knowledge and cooperation of the university press office three weeks ago. Ardent Productions fully supports the restrictions on filming Prince William at St Andrews University and at no time did the crew attempt to film Prince William, gain unauthorised access or shoot on the campus.\" Late yesterday the company finally apologised. But the university issued a detailed rebuttal of the claims. It said that Ardent was told on Monday and Wednesday that it had no special permission to film. \"The university regrets that despite its polite and repeated approaches to the Ardent team, they continued to film in St Andrews late into the evening of Wednesday.\"",
  "title": "Charles demands Edward choose TV or royals",
  "lead": "Prince Charles is to tell the Queen that Prince Edward must choose between his television production business and his public duties. By Matt Wells and Stephen Bates.",
  "tags": [
    "uk/uk",
    "media/media",
    "education/education",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/television",
    "education/students",
    "uk/prince-charles",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/prince-edward"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "uk/2001/sep/28/media.education",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}