{
  "content": "The director of the BBC's global news division, Richard Sambrook, opened the discussion about journalism and Twitter by saying: \"Twitter is good at gossip, promoting people's interest, and entertaining, but it is also good in some news-related fields. It isn't journalism, but it is good in transporting eyewitness pictures and live tweets, as it is in providing links to sites of interest. During the Iran election it even gave access to communication under a suppressive regime. \"But there are some shortcomings. It is hard to disentangle the truth from the rumour on Twitter, and to decide what is real information and what is even misinformation posted there on purpose. Its filters are not really built to manage the scale of information, but maybe lists might be a way of focusing discussions. \"There are some moral issues as well, as some Twitterers start to film injured people rather than helping them. In general, the speed of the news means you run the risk of getting it wrong, or being left behind. With a live stream and real-time communication there is no space for consideration. In addition, Twitter is temporary and its streams are fleeting so we risk losing information and history.\" Can Twitter curate journalism as well as feed it? Sambrook's speech was followed by a discussion among journalists such as Jeremy Gaunt from Reuters, Christ Taggart from OpenlyLocal.com and Sarah Hartley from the Guardian, as well as some non-journalists such as Alexandra Mecklenburg from Ogilvy or Paula Feery from the Open University and started with the difference between Twitterers and journalists. So do journalists feel threatened by people who tweet? Gaunt had reservations about the level of the threat. Twitter, he said, was merely a presentation of information, where there is no fact-checking - and news is disseminated that turns out to be false. He reiterated the difference between a reporter who reports and checks the facts and journalists who get paid for having an original opinion. \"New technology enables normal people to do reporting. But new technology also improves the monitoring quality of journalism as well. If we want local journalism it has to be done by people who are interested in their community and it doesn't have to be a full-time professional. \"Twitter is not an alternative to journalism. The role of the journalist changes from a gatekeeper of information to a gatewatcher. In case of an event or a catastrophe it might be his role to curate the live stream of Twitter and social media platforms. So he is still fact-checking. \"Newspapers are not good for news anymore,\" said Hartley - and Mecklenburg agreed. \"It is more about the editorial voice.\" Hartley added: \"You should be sceptical about Twitter, but you should be sceptical about your newspaper as well.\"",
  "title": "1pound40: Twitter - is it a help or a hindrance to journalism?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/thomson-reuters",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "careers/media-jobs",
    "careers/careers",
    "media/social-media",
    "careers/journalism-careers"
  ],
  "lead": "Mercedes Bunz: Conference considers whether Twitter gives journalists more information - or forces them into publishing facts too hastily",
  "id": "media/pda/2009/nov/11/digital-media-1pound40-twitter-journalism-richard-sambrook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}