{
  "content": "First they came for the stars, turning them into hearts, and we said nothing, or maybe \"whatevs\". Then they came for the 140 character count and we looked a bit annoyed and rolled our eyes but essentially did nothing except retweet a couple of \"wtf\"s. Now they are recalibrating global standards of free speech, so what now? When Twitter last week removed the blue tick of a writer (Breitbart contributor Milo Yiannopoulos) for breaching its newly created guidelines for speech and conduct on the platform, it pointed the way to a different future for social speech. Anything no longer goes. Those who cling to the fragile frame of Twitter's protocol design treat most changes to the platform like they once would have responded to someone messing around with the last half hour of Today on Radio 4. Twitter and its fellow social platforms are the new public media, addressing the global villages, and trying to do it all both efficently and profitably. They are in a very real sense doing things which have never been done before. There are however also changes which should be universally welcome. At the end of last year, in a post entitled \"Fighting Abuse to Protect the Freedom of Expression\", Twitter announced a change in the language regarding abusive speech, and published new guidelines for the removal and moderation of hostile and offensive behaviour on the platform. Comparing the Twitter Rules to those on the site a year ago, the scope and also the tone have changed significantly. \"Violence and threats\" were in 2014 dealt with in one line, \"Targeted Abuse\" in five. Now \"Violent threats\" has been amended to mean direct or indirect threats and clearly covers the threat or promotion \"of terrorism\". A section has been added on \"Hateful Conduct\". The rules here are the most broad: \"You may not promote violence against or directly attack or threaten other people on the basis of race, ethnicity, national origin, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, religious affiliation, age, disability, or disease. We also do not allow accounts whose primary purpose is inciting harm towards others on the basis of these categories.\" New lines on showing graphic content and dead bodies have also been added with concern expressed over when imagery showing death might violate the rights of those connected to the deceased and strip dignity from the corpse. Would a dead child on a beach now be allowed on Twitter? Who makes those calls is not yet clear. The immediate reaction in the US reflected some of the national identity confusion which exists around whether free speech is an absolute right or is hedged in cultural as well as legal limitation. The far rightwing commentariat spoke of the \"Horrifyingly Politicised Priorities\" of the Silicon Valley company, while most others welcomed a commitment to creating a more civil environment for exchange. In a parallel development several online media companies, including Verge Media, Re/Code, Lady Gaga's Born This Way Foundation and tech company Intel announced they would be targeting online harassment through the #hackharassment project. Last week was the anniversary of the Charlie Hebdo attacks in Paris, with another provocative anti-religious cover on a million copies of the magazine, but the truth is that the public sphere is becoming more tethered for both civic and practical reasons. Facebook, Twitter and Google agreed last week to accede to German government demands that they bring their deletion practices in line with German law rather than their own central policies. Germany's tightening of its already robust approach to hate speech comes as the country grapples with the practicalities of, and cultural turbulence resulting from accommodating record numbers of refugees fleeing the Syrian conflict. It is consistent with the political cultures of the two countries that Germany takes the view that the issue of regulation of speech is for government, whereas in the US the rules of engagement are primarily left to the private sector. However, the role of speech regulation is, as Twitter found, going to become a far more significant one. Although it is the home of the First Amendment, America has developed its own rather formal protocols for speech and expression. The widely mocked American expression \"have a nice day\" makes more sense in a crowded city where not everyone speaks the same language and civility needs understandable rituals attached to it. America has been electrified by the television personality Donald Trump's extraordinary campaign to become president. Using inflammatory language that might well cross the line set by Twitter, he has powered his way to lead the polls in the Republican race. What is one person's hate speech is another person's winning campaign. And herein lies a problem with the suddenly much greater flows of information and idea exchange. When they play the moderator we will see more and more aspects of old-fashioned publishing being adopted by the new gatekeepers. I predict next there will be public editors on every platform, round-ups of complaints and editing of increasing numbers of posts. Protection of and respect for dissent and free speech is one of the key tenets of democracy. It is an important balancing of rights and responsibilities which deserves searching and lengthy debate, even on Twitter.",
  "title": "Twitter tackles the free speech conundrum",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/freedom-of-speech",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "The social media site's new guidelines on hostile and offensive behaviour and language spark a whole new debate",
  "id": "media/2016/jan/10/twitter-free-speech-rules-hostile-behaviour",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}