{
  "content": "If the brains behind LabourList.org get it right, the site could become the HuffingtonPost for the British left. That's a very tall order, so is there enough appetite for the site? With a masterplan that includes empowering leftwingers through the campaigning and organising tools of the web, they might just pull it off. There was certainly plenty of colour for the papers to get excited about; Peter Mandelson's Second Life avatar even made the Sun, and more than slightly missed the point. Edited by Derek Draper, the campaign adviser to the Labour party's general secretary and former Peter Mandelson aide, LabourList contributors will include Harriet Harman, Alan Milburn, Ken Livingstone and David Lammy. Beyond the comment pieces on the site, ministers will be taking part in webchats on popular forums, including Yvette Cooper on moneysupermarket.com and Andy Burnham in a forum for the creative industries. The team will build a phone bank of voter information for home canvassers in time for the 4 June elections and a series of virals and widgets. Can Labour 'embrace and engage'? Draper rejected Monday's comments by Iain Dale that Draper wouldn't be able to run the blog properly just three days each week because he'd need to \"breathe it morning, noon and night\". \"He doesn't get it,\" said Draper. \"I'm not the sole contributor like he is, so even if I decide to lie in a hammock for a day there will still be five posts a day on the site and hundreds of comments.\" Draper says the \"received wisdom\" about opposition being stronger in the blogosphere is wrong. \"Look at LabourList or look at Kevin Maguire in the Mirror - there's no problem attacking the opposition. We need a tonic to the Tory ideas and values of greed and short-termism - those are all valid targets. The idea that the progressive left has nothing to rail against is just wrong.\" He insisted that LabourList has editorial independence from the Labour party, and that the project is not about \"command and control\" - even with the inventors of command and control, Peter Mandelson, Philip Gould and Alastair Campbell, getting involved in the site. The mantra now is \"embrace and engage\". Draper says there's no lack of willingness in the left to contribute to the wider, online political debate, but that people in opposition have much more time on their hands. \"It's talent that is needed - political, journalistic and entrepreneurial. People that could blog about Labour were either still in the government - like the Hazel Blears speechwriter Paul Richards - on have gone off to make their fortune, like Ben Wegg Prosser in Russia. There was a gap the size of the Grand Canyon.\" Building Labour online: the grassroots The next phase of this masterplan in building up the Labour community in the UK is to recruit an army of talented volunteers to contribute to the site. Think b3ta.com meets HuffingtonPost. And this is where you come in, says Draper. It could some Photoshop mastery performed on the latest Tory poster campaign, or a viral that circulates ahead of Barack Obama's inauguration reminding us that David Cameron supported John McCain. Even if you were against the war, are not a member of the Labour party and don't care about politics, you'll still have something to say. If that's your bag, he wants to hear from you. Behind the scenes, political campaign strategists Jag Singh and Mark Hanson have been quietly pushing social media web web-based campaigning for nearly two years, working on LabourHome with Alex Hilton, campaigning online for Mark McDonald as Labour treasurer and campaigning for a \"yes\" vote in the Manchester congestion charge vote. Grassroots: People don't do what they are told LabourList might have attracted the coverage, but the bigger part of the project is in building support and a network of campaigners through that kind of \"grassroots\" social media. Sound familiar? This is inspired not only by what has happened in the US in the last few years but by direct experience on some of those campaigns; Singh worked on US election campaigns including Hillary Clinton and John Kerry. \"New media is not about the party website, it's about going out to communities where they are, whether they be members or floating voters,\" said Hanson, who explained that the grassroots needed to be treated with respect by devolving control to them, and encouraging ministers to ditch \"politics speak\" when they talk to people online. \"There's a recognition that structures have changed. People don't do what they're told, they don't pitch up to constituency meetings and often they choose not to be formal members of the party. \"We have to make content available that enables people to pick and choose the resources they need to go and spread the message, organise around issues and not localities.\"",
  "title": "Building 'Labour's HuffingtonPost' - the next phase is you",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "politics/labour",
    "politics/peter-mandelson",
    "technology/politics",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "politics/politics",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "If the brains behind LabourList.org get it right, the site could become the HuffingtonPost for the British left wing. That's a very tall order, so is there enough appetite for the site? By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "media/pda/2009/jan/14/labour-peter-mandelson",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}