{
  "content": "There's a pervert on my doorstep. His name is Robert Tickner and he lives somewhere in North London. I don't know the exact location, but it shouldn't be that hard to find out. It's only two days since the News of the World published his name and photograph in its list of child-sex monsters. Maybe he hasn't had time to find somewhere to go. Some people must surely be hoping that he hasn't read the paper, watched the news or met anyone in Londis who put two and two together. Otherwise, this unique opportunity to bag the beast closest to them will have been lost and transferred to the residents of wherever Tickner lands next. If that happens to be Manchester, there's every chance that the nation's most on-the-ball mob - who got to the man they took to be their beast in a record six hours on the Sunday of publication - will put an end to his wandering for good. The fact that they mistook the physically challenged but perfectly innocent Mr Armstrong for the pervert in a neck brace they were after will surely not detract from their ambition to be the first mob in Britain to claim their Sarah Payne memorial scalp. I seldom get angry with tabloids. Of course, I know they lie but somehow that is now so well established that it stops me from being shocked at any specific example. This Sunday was an exception. My objections to Rebekah Wade's efforts to make her mark as the News of the World's new editor all proceeded from the thought of her sitting there one night at her computer, trying to work out how to reinvigorate her brand. I pictured her thinking her \"naming and shaming\" campaign through, weighing up the pros (massive publicity, increased sales and, most importantly, the tangible proof that she means business) against the cons (bad press, some political flak and a couple of whingeing liberal editorials). On that basis, it's no wonder she went for it. If you exclude the human consequences of publishing the paedophile register, it looks like a fantastic idea. With negligible journalistic effort and little financial outlay, the News of the World gets on the TV news as the \"paper at the heart of the controversy\" and Wade moves a step closer to her ambition to be the first woman to edit a daily tabloid. The only potential problem with this plan was the danger that some dense souls might misuse the beast list for purposes other than \"knowledge\" and that these same individuals might well prefer to pour petrol through the letterboxes of their chosen pervert than just stick their faces up on the fridge. But given that Wade is, by all accounts, a very intelligent woman, it is fair to assume that she had no inkling that the information she was providing would fall into the hands of her readers. The fact that some people ignored the News of the World's warnings against vigilantism - \"We do not want our readers to take any action\" - and plumped instead for its injunctions to take steps to protect \"our children\" - \"We say again. It is time for action\" - has many reverberations in which Wade and her colleagues are in no way implicated. \"The rule of law is crucial and outbursts of uncontrolled anger will solve nothing.\" According to the News of the World's editorial, the only proper response to discovering a beast in your midst is to forget you found him. Under \"What to do if there is a pervert on your doorstep,\" readers are warned against leaving their children unattended in dark alleys - which is odd. You're going to look after your children whether or not the pervert is a clear and present danger. Which rather puts the dampeners on the idea that the list has any legal uses. It doesn't. The only things you can do with the name and address of someone you believe to be evil incarnate are a) call him up and tell him what you think of his lifestyle, b) send him something vile in the post or c) pay him a visit on the way back from the pub one evening. The News of the World knows this. The key editorial pages are peppered with the language of pursuit. It is \"scouting out the beasts\", it says, encouraging us to \"catch 'em on the web\". It's hard not to think of Pok\u00e9mon's \"gotta catch them all\" when you hear that the NoW will dribble out names \"week by week\". In order to get the set, you have to keep on buying. Exactly how the pub- lication of the photographs of free men will impact on the rulings on those who have yet to be sentenced is a mystery. Nor is it clear how a campaign can be effective if nothing is demanded of its supporters. If we agree with Sarah Payne's mother that the way to deal with paedophiles is simply to \"put them in prison and let them die there\", what can we do about it? There isn't any cut-out postcard to send to your MP, nor any single suggestion as to how the average person can help ensure that \"life means life\". In this sense, the NoW campaign is not a campaign at all but a call for consumer action which bypasses politics in favour of a brokered relationship between public and errant quarry. The paedophiles have been run down by the media acting on the people's behalf. In this scenario, the papers are the law enforcers and their mandate from the public (88% in a Mori poll agreed with naming and shaming) allows them to effect change directly, instead of pressuring government. That's why there's no need to write to your MP. Your support has been sought, via Mori, for the NoW's strategy and it is intending to use that as a government would use its electoral mandate. It's particularly easy to do this around law and order since New Labour made it a consumer issue. No longer concerned with the impact of crime on society, the focus has shifted to the impact of the criminal on the victim. The effect of allowing victims of crime to present their testimonies in court has been to reduce the issue to a stand off between two individuals - abuser and abused. As long as this trend continues, tabloid editors will be able to exploit it and no one will be accountable for what happens. The \"pervert on your doorstep\" is yours to do with as you see fit, and if you're going to send him razor blades that's OK, as long as you address them correctly.",
  "title": "Pervert special - buy the set",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "The News of the World's real motive behind the publication of its paedophile list ",
  "id": "media/2000/jul/25/newsoftheworld.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}