{
  "content": "Lawyers acting for Heather Mills McCartney yesterday moved to defend her from a series of newspaper stories about her past and said she would be taking advice about whether to sue. This follows a week in which her life before she met Sir Paul has been trawled over in a number of tabloids, a frenzy which appears to have been provoked by the announcement three weeks ago that the couple were splitting up. Yesterday's News of the World devoted four pages to a story about Mills McCartney, 38, and claims of past liaisons. In a statement, her lawyers said: \"These are not new stories and were refuted by her lawyers four years ago when first raised. \"The sources clearly are a variety of unreliable persons who have been paid. The timing of the article is clearly designed to cause maximum hurt to Heather, her husband and family at this sensitive time.\" Mills McCartney's lawyer, Stephen Taylor, told the Guardian that four years ago the News of the World had been threatening to print the allegations for three or four consecutive Sundays - but had not published. \"We threatened legal action and that stopped it.\" Mr Taylor said he would today discuss taking legal action against the News of the World over the allegations with Mills McCartney . A former executive at News International, which includes the Sun and News of the World, said yesterday that the papers had been reluctant to attack Mills McCartney when she was with the former Beatle, describing it as a classic example of editors holding back when a figure as powerful - and beloved by the public - was involved. \"There are a few people, and McCartney is one of them, whom editors are reluctant to have a real go at. If you attacked Heather, you attacked Paul and the public might not like that.\" The executive said it was not just that Sir Paul had the wealth to sue, it was that if he launched a public attack on News International, or another newspaper group, he could do serious harm to their sales. The executive also suggested that Sir Paul knew all about the allegations against Mills McCartney and might even have spoken to Rupert Murdoch about them. \"But now she has lost Paul's protection, it's gloves-off time.\" Mark Stephens, a media expert with the law firm Finers Stephens Innocent, said newspapers had a tendency to \"erode a person's reputation\", making it harder for them to sue for libel because their good character - key in a libel trial - was slipping away. He said: \"These allegations are intrusive and have no real public interest.\" He said some celebrities were considered untouchable, \"but stories are stored up for when they fall\". Max Clifford agreed that Mills McCartney's reputation was being \"chipped away\" by the tabloids. Since she had married Sir Paul, he said, he had received calls from South Africa, Saudi Arabia and Spain with \"colourful stories\". \"I've been approached by famous people worried their names are going to be drawn into this and by other people with more stories. This is not going away any time soon.\" In the four years of their marriage, there was a steady flow of stories criticising Mills McCartney. Sir Paul himself spoke out to deny that she had forced him to dye his hair or have plastic surgery, or prodded him to ask for the Lennon-McCartney credit to be reversed on Yesterday. Beneath the sniping were darker rumours that she had a past she ought to be ashamed of. She has been the victim of a whispering campaign over her early years as a glamour model. But in the weeks since her split with the pop superstar, the whispering has become full-voiced criticism, with claims about things that may or may not have happened up to 20 years ago. Last week the the Sun published explicit photographs of her in intimate poses with a man. Mills McCartney insisted the book was an \"instructive\" sex guide rather than pornography, but the floodgates were opening. The Mail on Sunday and Sunday Mirror carried interviews with the man. Mr Taylor said: \"This is a ridiculous story. People will see that individuals are being paid to peddle these allegations - what they are claiming is pretty horrendous. It may be that the individuals are not worth suing but the News of the World might be. She [Mills McCartney] doesn't run into litigation, but she wants it known that these allegations are false.\"",
  "title": "Mills McCartney consults lawyers over rising tide of tabloid sleaze stories",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "uk/heather-mills",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "Lawyers acting for Heather Mills McCartney yesterday moved to defend her from a series of newspaper stories about her past and said she would be taking advice about whether to sue. By Steven Morris",
  "id": "media/2006/jun/12/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}