{
  "content": "Virginia state senator Creigh Deeds thanked supporters as he was released from hospital on Friday, four days after he was stabbed during an altercation with his son. \"I am alive so must live. Some wounds won't heal. Your prayers and your friendship are important to me,\" Deeds tweeted.  The former gubernatorial candidate was repeatedly stabbed in the head and chest during a row with his son, Gus Deeds, 24, on Tuesday. Gus Deeds later died at his father's home, apparently from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. University of Virginia Medical Center spokesman Eric Swensen said Creigh Deeds was discharged on Friday morning. He had been airlifted to hospital on Tuesday. After the incident it emerged that Gus Deeds had been released from psychiatric care the day before the incident. Officials said he was not admitted to a hospital because no bed was available.  The director of the inspector general program for behavioral health in Virginia has opened an investigation into the matter. Deeds and his son were the only ones at his house on a farm in Millboro when the stabbing took place. Police recovered a gun at the home, but have not provided details about it. No details have been provided about the stabbing weapon. Gus Deeds had studied music at the College of William and Mary, where he had been enrolled off and on since 2007; he withdrew last month, school spokesman Brian Whitson said. The college said he had a strong academic record. It did not say why he left. Deeds ran for attorney general in 2005, losing to Republican Bob McDonnell by less than 400 votes. In 2009 he defeated Terry McAuliffe and Brian Moran in the Democratic primary for governor, and again faced McDonnell in the general election, losing heavily.",
  "title": "Virginia state senator says 'I am alive so must live' after stabbing incident",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "us-news/us-news",
    "us-news/us-politics",
    "media/social-media",
    "us-news/us-crime",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Creigh Deeds released from hospital after altercation with his son, who later died from a self-inflicted gunshot",
  "id": "world/2013/nov/22/virginia-state-senator-creigh-deeds-stabbing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}