{
  "content": "You gotta love Snapchat. Don't you? Certainly, the bankers think so. While the photos and videos may disappear in seconds, the company's valuation has proved far less ephemeral. When the app raised money last year, investors put a value on it of about $10bn. Now, Snapchat is looking for more cash \u2013 $500m or so \u2013 to help it roll out its new features, and the buzz is that the valuation has doubled. Oh, the company is less than four years old, its CEO is 24 and the company has only just begun working on ways to generate revenue (as opposed to raising money and attracting users). Still no word on profits. This is all starting to sound eerily familiar. We are just far enough away in time from the dotcom debacle for it to have receded in our collective memories. There are plenty of people working in investment management, running our 401(k) plans, or in investment banking, for whom the truly horrible decisions made during the late 1990s are simply a story. Since then we've all experienced a far worse event, the financial crisis of 2008 and the recession that followed, which had a far greater impact on our financial wellbeing and which continues to overshadow us. Here's why we might want to hit the pause button on that process. Venture capital funding is back to dotcom bubble levels, according to data released earlier this year by Ernst &amp; Young LLP, with startup investors plowing $86.7bn last year into everything from the tiniest and most speculative biotech idea to \"T-Rex\" venture-backed companies like Snapchat and Uber. In fact, those T-Rex deals dominated the landscape: 309 companies worldwide got funding of more than $50m last year \u2013 an immense sum, by venture capital standards \u2013 compared to only 141 in 2013. So what? Well, at some point, those venture investors are going to want to make a profit on their money. They are going to need an exit strategy, sooner rather than later. At those lofty prices and equally hefty valuations, the odds of a T-Rex venture-backed company becoming a takeover target dip. That's the traditional exit for most venture investments, but companies acquiring a startup business and facing the reality that about half of all mergers fail will be wary about the price they pay. Which leaves the IPO market \u2013 and us. And we've shown ourselves to be eager to buy venture-backed IPOs and drive valuations higher. Look at Box Inc, which soared nearly 66% on its first day of trading in January, or GoPro Inc, makers of those wearable cameras, whose shares have more than doubled since its IPO last year, in spite of the fact that the company's employees can now sell their own holdings freely \u2013 a highly unusual trend. While that performance isn't the norm \u2013 about half of last year's venture-backed IPOs were losers \u2013 it's the big winners that grab the headlines and help keep the momentum going. Especially when it's a company like GoPro: a big consumer brand, with millions of fans and followers, just like Snapchat, Uber, Airbnb and Pinterest. All of these, because of their high profiles among regular users (let's face it, how many of us are familiar with Semier Scientific, Egalet Corp or even Mobileye NV?) are commanding outsize valuations at least in part because bankers and venture capitalists figure that ordinary investors will be lining up to invest \u2013 just as many of us did with Facebook and Twitter. Sure, many of these companies will morph into real businesses \u2013 just as eBay, Priceline, Amazon and other dotcom survivors did. Others will flame out. But when momentum takes over, and eager venture capitalists desperately seek to tie their own brands to those of household names like Snapchat, Uber, Airbnb and others, it's impossible to imagine that even some of the most solid business models aren't going to end up overvalued at the venture capital stage. And since the VCs want to make a profit, that means that by the time they hit the IPO market, they'll be even more overvalued. Then, too, there is the company's own ability to execute on its business model to think about. Even after Facebook's shares recovered from the messy IPO process, within months disappointing earnings battered the stock again and had some investors calling for Mark Zuckerberg to step down as CEO. Being a global brand and a superstar who can walk on water in the private markets is no guarantee of anything once a company has gone public, and it's all about this quarter's earnings. Some venture capitalists and startup companies smugly assert that they can stay in their nice, privately owned little nests indefinitely. That would be great for them, and probably not that bad for the public markets, either, to the extent that it would minimize the risk of future Pets.com ever reaching the general investment public. (Anyone who invests in a venture capital fund has enough money and enough gold-plated investment advice to minimize the chances of losing on these deals, or of feeling any real pain as a result; a 401(k) investor who gets caught up in a second wave of irrational enthusiasm for a dotcom version 2.0 is quite another matter.) Sadly, they're probably wrong. It's lovely that the venture capital firms and the investors in those partnerships are happy just to see the value of their investments increasing with each subsequent round of capital, and don't want liquidity. But at some point, somebody is going to get nervous about all these paper gains, and want to be the first guy to take his paper to the cashier and turn it into real money. And the rest will follow. And that's why we're seeing lots of lists of top IPO candidates for 2015, even as more and more dollars flow into T-Rex companies. As all this venture capital fund-raising and venture-backed IPO buzz is going on, the Nasdaq index is slowly but steadily approaching the 5,000 mark for the first time since \u2013 yes, you guessed it \u2013 March 2000. It peaked at 5,135.52 that month. It wasn't that long before the Pets.com sock puppet, the hit of the 1999 Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade and the 2000 Super Bowl advertising lineup, was worth more as a stuffed mascot of the excesses of the dotcom era than was a share of Pets.com stock. One mutual fund manager I know actually declined the offer to invest in Pets.com, but offered to buy a sock puppet at the IPO price of $11 \u2013 per puppet, rather than per share. I'm not sure I'm worried enough about GoPro's prospects to opt for a GoPro HERO3 system over four shares of the company's stock, but when it comes to some of the T-Rex companies likely to make their way into the IPO pipeline in the coming months, I'm not sure. It's worth pondering some of these questions now, before the IPO is announced and marketing hype and the buzz takes over. Because you love pinning things, do you really want to bet that Pinterest can make money and help secure your retirement \u2013 or will you and your fellow Pinterest fans find the proposed influx of ads on the site annoying? Are you confident enough that Uber will last as a transportation alternative, and ride out regulatory issues? Brace yourself, because the T-Rexes are coming.",
  "title": "Snapchat and the 'T-Rex' venture: why it all sounds like dotcom bubble 2.0",
  "lead": "Venture capital funding is at dotcom levels, with investors plowing $86.7bn last year into everything from biotech ideas to companies like Snapchat and Uber",
  "tags": [
    "business/ipos",
    "business/business",
    "technology/snapchat",
    "technology/technology",
    "money/money"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "money/us-money-blog/2015/feb/22/snapchat-t-rex-ventures-dotcom-bubble",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}