{
  "content": "New newspaper guidelines designed to help prevent the \"international phenomenon\" of copycat suicides following high-profile media coverage will today be announced by the Press Complaints Commission. Following controversy over the coverage of the death of lawyer Katherine Ward, who was pictured by some newspapers jumping from a hotel window in Kensington, west London, groups led by the Samaritans have lobbied hard for the introduction of a specific provision covering suicide. After consulting international research highlighting the dangers of imitative deaths following reports of suicide, the editors' code of practice committee - the arm of the self-regulatory body charged with composing and revising the code - has written a new clause into the existing provisions covering intrusion into grief or shock. Les Hinton, the chair of the committee and also chairman of News International, publisher of the Sun and Times, said the new rules codified practices already followed by many editors. \"We have attempted to minimise that risk [of copycat suicides] - while maintaining the public's right to know - by emphasising the need for care to avoid excessive detail, unless it is in the wider public interest to give that information,\" he said. \"For example, while it might be perfectly proper to report that suicide was caused by an overdose of paracetamol, it would probably be excessive to state the number of tablets used.\" The issue had been considered before by the committee but it had previously been felt that the existing provisions were sufficient. Complaints made by friends of Ms Ward over photographs in the Sun, the Times and the London Evening Standard were dismissed at the time because the PCC ruled that her suicide was sensitively handled. However, a mention by one of the complainants of the possibility that the pictures could encourage copycat suicides, along with other cases around the country and the world, led the code of practice committee to consider the introduction of the new clause. The Samaritans chief executive, David King, who compiled a detailed submission collating evidence from around the world into copycat suicides and detailing other concerns about what it saw as over sensational and graphic reporting, said the move was \"a great step forward\". \"It should mean we'll see more informative reporting of suicide as an issue, and far less about the methods and the sensational aspects which don't help and at times can be genuinely harmful,\" he said. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Press gets new suicide reporting guidelines",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "8am: Newspaper guidelines designed to prevent copycat suicides following high-profile media coverage will today be announced by the Press Complaints Commission. By Owen Gibson",
  "id": "media/2006/jun/29/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}