{
  "content": "The Sun is overwhelmingly seen as the newspaper most likely to intrude on people's privacy, according to a major new study on behalf of the BBC and various media watchdogs. More than six out of 10 people, drawn from a sample of media professionals and the general public, who thought that newspapers intruded into privacy believed that the Sun was the worst offender. The Sun was singled out by eight times as many people as the Star, which was considered to be the worst offender by 7% of the sample. The Mirror was thought to be most likely to intrude by just one in 20. The Sun's sister title, the News of the World, also dominated the list of Sunday papers most guilty of intrusion, with almost seven out of 10 of those who agreed that newspapers intruded on privacy, naming it as the worst culprit. According to the report, backed by the independent television commission and the broadcasting standards commission among others, a similar proportion of Sun and News of the World readers also thought that the paper was guilty of intruding into people's privacy. The authors of the report suggested this was because no distinction was made between occasions when it was justifiable to intrude and when it wasn't. It also highlighted confusion over the term \"public interest\". Although members of the public faced the same problems as regulators in defining the term, when faced with specific examples they offered a clear view of what was right and wrong. Interestingly, given the current obsession with celebrity, eight out of 10 people thought the lives of pop stars and TV stars should be given little or no coverage. The same amount thought that the details of serious crimes should be given maximum coverage or quite a lot of coverage. However, this can probably be put down to the fact that people tend to lie on questionnaires, in the same way as in TV surveys people always claim to prefer documentaries and news to soaps and quiz shows.",
  "title": "The Sun tops poll as 'most intrusive'",
  "lead": " The Sun is seen as the newspaper most likely to intrude on people's privacy, according to a major new study. By Owen Gibson",
  "tags": [
    "media/sun",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2002/mar/06/sun.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}