{
  "content": "\"Do you tweet?\" asked my colleague (a right-wing philosopher and distinguished technophobe), looking at me over his spectacles like a magistrate inspecting a lap-dancer arrested for public order offences. He'd been listening to the Today programme, which has recently discovered Twitter. \"Yes,\" I replied nonchalantly. \"As I thought,\" he snorted, and shuffled off. The idea that sentient human beings would waste energy by posting 140-character messages about their thoughts and doings struck him as barmy. And one can see his point of view. It is a doddle to use. Go to www.twitter.com and sign up for an account absolutely free. You are then presented with a small text box 140 characters wide and the question 'What are you doing?' Type a reply and instantly this is broadcast to the world, or at any rate to the Twitterverse. You can, if you're a shy and retiring type, \"protect\" your tweets so that only your \"followers\" see them. These are people who have asked to follow you. I follow just over 100 people, mostly people I know - and value - in the real world. The BBC's saintly technology correspondent, Rory Cellan-Jones is one, for example; Tim O'Reilly, the technology publisher, is another. Many others are academic or journalistic colleagues. What I get is a steady stream of comments, web-links and pointers to ideas, articles, blog posts or news. Occasionally there is the odd tweet about a delicious croissant or a missed plane, but my twitter-stream is fairly cerebral - and sometimes witty. Watching TV the other night, I sent out a tweet asking \"Is a lobotomy a condition of employment for presenters of The Gadget Show?' Back came a tweet: 'No, but it is for anyone who watches it.' Twitter's been around for ages, but it's now gone \"mainstream\" - ie, been taken up by the brain-dead media, possibly because they've discovered that celebs have Twitter accounts. Jonathan Ross (@wossy in Twitterspeak) used it to send dispatches to his admirers during his banishment from the airwaves. I've just checked and he has 156,092 followers. But this horde is dwarfed by Stephen Fry's (@stephenfry) 321,578. This gives Mr Fry a certain amount of clout. A few months ago he pronounced on the BlackBerry Storm, a new phone being touted by Vodafone. \"Shockingly bad,\" he tweeted. \"I mean embarrassingly awful. Such a disappointment. Rushed out unfinished. What a pity.\" Given that many Twitterers are, like Mr Fry, gadget freaks, his tweets effectively shut down that corner of the market. Suddenly companies are beginning to think that having a lot of Twitter followers might be a good idea. But how to acquire them? Last week a technology entrepreneur named Jason Calcanis created a stir when he offered Twitter $250,000 to make him one of the \"suggested users\" in the system. (When you sign up, you are taken to a page listing people you might like to follow. Being on this page results in 5,000 to 10,000 people a day signing up to follow you.) It turned out that Mr Calcanis's motive was business acumen. He runs a start-up called Mahalo Answers (http://bit.ly/15h9pP) where people can earn money by answering questions posed by internet users. It is currently attracting about 50,000 users a day and he would like to increase that traffic, so his offer might make entrepreneurial sense. That's certainly what he thought. \"I was only half-bluffing with this move,\" he wrote in his weekly newsletter. \"I was 90% sure Twitter wouldn't take the money and I wouldn't have to pony up .... However, if they did call my bluff ... I would have gotten what I wanted: two to 10 million Twitter followers and the ability to drive one to two million visits to Mahalo a month from Twitter.' The folks who run Twitter didn't swallow Mr Calcanis's bait - but his move garnered a lot of free publicity. And he's just raised the ante to $500,000 for a three-year slot as a suggested user. Something to tweet home about.",
  "title": "Actually, there can be a point to making a little tweet-talk",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "John Naughton:  suddenly companies are beginning to think that having a lot of Twitter followers might be a good idea",
  "id": "media/2009/mar/22/digital-media-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}