{
  "content": "When Burberry introduced its spring/summer 2012 show to the wider world by live tweeting the collection, the move was hailed as proof that the brand understood the importance of digital savvy. In buzz terms, the 'tweetwalk' certainly worked out well for them. Increasingly, fashion houses have embraced the idea of showing everyone what they've got, such as See By Chlo\u00e9 broadcasting their autumn/winter 2012 show exclusively online or the Dolce &amp; Gabbana live stream. Though the biggest impact that the digital revolution has had in shaping the fashion landscape is the many, many, many blogs dedicated to pictures of what people are wearing on any given street (the Sartorialist, to link to but one), high end designers appear to have pretty much come round to the idea that technology is their friend. With this in mind, Oscar de la Renta's live coverage of its bridal show on Monday came via Pinterest, the virtual moodboard that allows users to quickly 'pin' pictures to a page for anyone to see. As 'fashion shows by way of the virtual' go, Oscar de la Renta really nailed it with this one. Not only does Pinterest's visual emphasis make perfect sense for the fashion world (hence why everyone from Grazia to New York fashion week have their own Pinterest pages) but brides in particular have taken to the medium with ferocity. Speaking to USA Today, Anne Fulenwider, editor in chief of Brides magazine, said that 'pinners' had \"really changed the conversation\" of her magazine because so many would-be brides use the site. In 2012 terms, Pinterest is the equivalent of the scrap book a bride would stuff with torn-out magazine pages and photos of flower arrangements. In that regard, Oscar de le Renta and Pinterest make for a holy union indeed. But away from the catwalk, it would be interesting to know which fashion Pinterest pages you think are worth mentioning. Let us know your favourite pinners below.",
  "title": "Pinterest, brides and Oscar de la Renta: a good marriage",
  "lead": "Inspiration comes direct from the catwalk with a little help from the online mood board that brides love",
  "tags": [
    "fashion/fashion",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "lifeandstyle/weddings",
    "technology/pinterest",
    "fashion/oscar-de-la-renta"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "fashion/fashion-blog/2012/apr/17/pinterest-brides-oscar-de-la-renta",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}