{
  "content": "The senior civil servant conducting the inquiry into the fallout from the climate science emails stolen from the University of East Anglia will today set out the inquiry's remit. Sir Muir Russell was appointed by the university on 3 December to investigate allegations based on the contents of the emails. Many commentators had hoped that his inquiry would be completed quickly to draw a line under the affair and are dismayed that it has taken two months to formally begin. The review was partly pre-empted by the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) in January. In a statement, the deputy information commissioner, Graham Smith, said the emails revealed that freedom of information (FoI) requests were \"not dealt with [by the university] as they should have been under the legislation\". He said it was not possible for the ICO to take action against the university because the alleged breach had occurred more than six months ago. The Liberal Democrat MP Phil Willis, who chairs the parliamentary science and technology select committee - which is conducting its own inquiry into the hacked emails - described this as \"an extremely serious charge\". The emails were disseminated widely on the web on 17 November after being hacked from the university's Climatic Research Unit. The identity of the hacker is unknown and the apparent theft of emails is being investigated by police. Sir Muir Russell, who is chair of the Judicial Appointments Board for Scotland and former principal and vice-chancellor of the University of Glasgow, will explain the review's remit at 11am at a press conference and clarify which issues it will investigate. He will also set out the review's work plan and processes, invite submissions and evidence, explain the inquiry's openness and publication policy and provide an estimate for when he will report back. He will also introduce his team. Despite exaggerated blog and media claims, the emails do not provide evidence of collusion among scientists to fabricate data or invent hoax warming claims. However, a major investigation by the Guardian has established that the scientists involved went to great lengths to block FoI requests, abused the peer review process to exclude rivals and apparently suppressed data flaws. On Tuesday, the Guardian launched a unique collaborative approach aimed at producing a definitive account of what the emails say about climate science and how scientists operate. The newspaper is inviting protagonists and people with expert knowledge of the emails on all sides of the debate to contribute a full online account of the investigation.",
  "title": "Head of UEA inquiry to outline scope of review into hacked climate emails",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "environment/hacked-climate-science-emails",
    "environment/climate-change",
    "science/scienceofclimatechange",
    "environment/climate-change-scepticism",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/technology",
    "education/universityofeastanglia",
    "education/education",
    "science/science",
    "environment/environment",
    "politics/freedomofinformation"
  ],
  "lead": "Sir Muir Russell will set out the remit of the inquiry into the fallout from the climate science emails stolen from the University of East Anglia",
  "id": "environment/2010/feb/11/uea-hacked-climate-emails-inquiry",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}