{
  "content": "Has social gaming lost its soul? In its early days on Facebook, the talk was of bringing gaming to a much wider audience, and connecting people through play: games as a vehicle for communication between friends. In 2013, there are few too many social games that feel more like vehicles for monetisation, where the art and craft of game design has mutated into a science of getting people to spend more money, with social features relegated to the role of just another potential purchasing trigger. Matthew Wiggins has seen the shifting sands of social gaming close up. Having worked at Lionhead Studios, Linden Lab and Codemasters, in 2009 he founded his own studio, Wonderland Software, to make mobile games. It released a game named GodFinger in 2009 through publisher ngmoco, which was one of the first companies to kickstart the free-to-play social mobile gaming bandwagon in the West, after Apple opened up in-app purchases to free iOS games in October 2009. In April 2011, Wonderland was bought by social games giant Zynga, where Wiggins spent 20 months as general manager of its Zynga Mobile UK studio. He left in November 2012, lay low for six months, and then announced a new indie studio named JiggeryPokery. The studio has been set up to work on multiplayer games \"taking inspiration from everything from your favourite family board games to the latest digital battling games\", with a strong emphasis on community features around each title. \"I don't really care how much money we make in the first week or month. I want to make something that people will still be playing in two, three or five years time, and build that community around it,\" says Wiggins. \"It's a totally virtuous thing: we want to make a good amount of revenue for a long time, but the only way we're going to do that is if players enjoy it enough.\" App Store history JiggeryPokery's first game will come out in the Autumn, but it hasn't been announced yet. Instead, Wiggins is bursting with views on the evolution of social gaming, free-to-play business models and mobile platforms which bodes well for his future plans. It's worth remembering why independent developers were so excited about mobile games when the App Store launched in 2008, compared to the existing mobile games industry that was based around mobile operators' games portals and projects like Nokia's N-Gage. \"You had these incumbents who totally owned the means of distribution, and they would take a huge cut of any revenue from it. And the revenue was so small because the devices were shit,\" says Wiggins, who notes that in 2008, setting up shop as a indie console developer was also tough. \"The App Store was an amazing creative opportunity with a whole new class of devices, and a whole new way of interacting with them. It totally unlocked this opportunity to make mainstream products without the kind of risk or the kind of money that it previously took game developers to go out on their own.\" Has the apps era delivered on this potential, though? Some might argue that in 2013, setting up as an indie mobile games developer is even more risky, with crowded app stores, near-impregnable top 10 charts and the expectation that your games will have to be initially given away for free. Wiggins is still an iOS fan, praising Apple for the way it manages its App Store in comparison to some of the other digital distribution channels for games. \"Apple are very even-handed in the way they treat people, in terms of not favouring the biggest companies over smaller ones. As a small startup without millions of quid in investment or an established presence, that gives you an extremely level playing field in which to operate,\" says Wiggins. \"Apple don't tend to favour anybody, or at least, the only people they actually favour are the people buying their devices. They're a fair dictator in that sense, they want to provide the best experience for those people, and if you have the same point-of-view as Apple \u2013 which we totally have \u2013 that can be a very good thing.\" The obvious comparisons are to Android's Google Play store, which in 2013 is getting a steadily-growing number of new mobile games alongside or shortly after their iOS releases, and to Valve's desktop-based Steam service. \"Steam is a dictatorship again, but the way they operate is very unpredictable. And because Valve are also a games company, there's a conflict of interest there too. There's also some messiness around how their green-light process works,\" says Wiggins. \"And Google Play is kind of a free-for-all: a strange environment that's not high-quality, and very fragmented. Android could do with having a stronger, clearer dictatorship, and Steam could do with being more open and less autocratic. Apple, I think, have shown a very good stewardship of the App Store.\" Business sense It's still a daunting market for new, small games studios bringing their spade to the App Store gold-rush though. Wiggins has plenty of views on how independent firms need to marry creative and commercial instincts to give themselves the best shot at success. \"The best businesses marry your creative goals with a really strong business sense. The only way that you're going to continue to make really cool things is by making enough money,\" he says. \"But you have to manage it so that if you're financially successful, you still have those creative goals. Otherwise you're just a hollow moneymaking machine. And a lot of people get that wrong.\" Wiggins suggests that a lot of independent developers still want to \"just sit down and make a really cool game\" and don't want to think about the business side of it, while the other extreme are companies who see games purely as moneymaking devices. \"When we're thinking about what excites us about a particular concept, we're also thinking about how we're going to get people to know about that, have fun in it and want to spend money in it, so we can continue to be successful,\" he says. \"So we're thinking about how to market it, how to manage our community: all the things that go towards making a business versus just making a hobby. Yet a lot of games people still don't want to even think about marketing. You've got to be excited by that whole process, not just the making of the thing.\" Big guns challenges Are big companies better placed to succeed in mobile games? Not necessarily, according to Wiggins, who thinks many struggle for the nimbleness required to adapt to mobile trends and the demands of players. Companies like Zynga, EA and Activision have varying strategies and success on mobile, but they're united in being outshined \u2013 for the moment, anyway \u2013 by games from companies like Supercell, King, GungHo Online and (to a lesser extent, because half its revenues come from physical products) Rovio. \"What they should be worried about is they don't need the number of people that they've got to make successful games. It's probably not a good idea to have 80 people working on a mobile game for two years,\" says Wiggins. \"As Supercell have shown, it's about small cross-discipline teams with ownership over their games: making them, testing them and putting them out. Then you start to ramp the thing up. The risk is much lower than if you're someone like Bungie putting together [console game] Destiny.\" He continues: \"God knows how much money that's costing you, and you need to guarantee that it will be a hit. Over time, the industry will support less of those companies. We're moving towards a film industry model, where a small number of very large companies can put a lot of money into games and turn them into an event,\" he says. \"But there's only so many of those humungous hits you can have. But the App Store supports that whole idea of smaller, more agile things. It's a tough environment for companies who think in terms of big, big budgets and big, big marketing.\" Free-to-pay? Some of the games making big, big revenues on the App Store are the ones viewed with most suspicion by keen gamers and games developers for the way they make money from in-app purchases in their ostensibly free-to-play games. That's evolved into a distrust \u2013 within what you might consider traditional gaming circles \u2013 of free-to-play as a business model in itself. Not a view that Wiggins agrees with. \"Free-to-play should be an honest business model. What it says is 'you don't have to give me any money to play this game \u2013 you can play it for as long as you want to decide if it's worth you spending money on it',\" says Wiggins. \"It's about us as developers making something of value to you before you get to spend money, rather than getting you to spend \u00a340 on a console game based on a review that has probably been paid for by the people who have published that game.\" It's a sharp and likely controversial point to make: that exploitation of gamers isn't a trend invented in the apps era. Review score-related skeletons have been popping out of the console industry's cupboard for some time now without condemning the entire boxed-game business model. But Wiggins doesn't gloss over some of the negative aspects of what's been happening on mobile either. \"Once you have someone who has paid you money, that relationship can then turn exploitative. Some of the chasing whales thing can get really out of hand, when you're identifying people willing to spend a lot of money,\" he says. \"Maybe they have got a lot of money, but where you have to be careful is if someone is living on the breadline and putting \u00a3100 a week into one of these games. You don't want to effectively cause people to be addicted in a gambling way.\" Investment pressure This isn't inherently a problem with free-to-play: Wiggins points out that \"anything you spend money on\" can have these addictive qualities that are ripe for unethical exploitation. He does see some factors in the investment ecosystem around free-to-play mobile games that may encourage it, though. \"The way that some of the tech industry and startup ecosystem is structured supports incredibly short-term revenue targets,\" says Wiggins. \"If you're VC-backed and the only way you're going to make money is to float it \u2013 which is now relatively unlikely \u2013 or sell the business to someone, you have to show the maximum amount of revenue as soon as you possibly can, and reach a peak right as you sell the company.\" Hence the temptation to focus on short-term gain (and possibly pain for players) over building a sustainable, ethical business for the long-term. Wiggins does see companies who are taking the latter approach, including some with the most popular games. Rovio, for example, which ended 2012 with 263m monthly active players of its Angry Birds games. \"What they've done well is that people will describe themselves as 'an Angry Birds player'. I wouldn't think people would say they're 'a Candy Crush Saga player' \u2013 it's one of those spike-y games that people play for a few months, and then something else comes along,\" says Wiggins. He also thinks Supercell has taken the right path so far with its Clash of Clans and Hay Day games, which harvested the company $179m of revenues in the first quarter of 2013 alone. \"They've done an exceptionally good job of marrying social features with slightly deeper gameplay mechanics, but the principle thing they've developed is that sense of community and servicing it really well,\" says Wiggins. \"It feels like they care, and it's helping them to make a lot of money because they're not trying to bleed their players dry. They know that the long-term success of their company is going to be made from players who love those games.\" Social resurgence He's optimistic that more companies will come along with these attitudes and find similar, sustainable success \u2013 and naturally he's hoping JiggeryPokery will be one of them. More social games with their sense of soul? It would be a welcome trend, reminding players of those early ambitions on Facebook. \"Social games is a really nice idea, with lots of concepts that are exciting and interesting. The idea of connecting people through games is a really admirable goal. But where social games went was viral marketing,\" says Wiggins. \"That's what the companies ended up gravitating towards: using a social network to market your game by getting people to spam their friends. I don't think that's social gaming, but that's what 'social games' now means. Spamming someone's Facebook feed is not a meaningful interaction.\" So what is? \"Playing, constructing something, then sending it to a friend and seeing what they can do with it? That is a meaningful interaction. Making a game that's social is all about real people interacting with one another, and enjoying that interaction,\" he says. \"The Facebook market is dropping off quite a bit with players becoming relatively de-sentitized to cheap viral marketing tactics. I think developers will start to rethink their approaches quite a bit.\"",
  "title": "Ex-Zynga studio boss Matthew Wiggins on where social games went wrong",
  "lead": "'Spamming someone's Facebook feed is not a meaningful interaction,' says developer, whose new venture JiggeryPokery wants to put the fun back into free-to-play. By Stuart Dredge",
  "tags": [
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/zynga",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/games",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/apps",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/appsblog/2013/jul/18/jiggerypokery-social-games-freemium-zynga",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}