{
  "content": "DOUGLAS v HELLO! SUMMARY OF JUDGMENT PREPARED FOR CLAIMANTS Michael Douglas, Catherine Zeta-Jones and OK! have all three won their case against Hello!. The Judge has held that Hello! is liable in damages to MD, CZJ and OK! under the law of confidence, as well as data protection. MD and CZJ are entitled to an injunction to prevent any further publication of the unauthorised photographs. The amount of the damages will be assessed at a further hearing. The Judge noted 'that an important step in my coming to that conclusion has been that, on balancing rights to confidence against freedom of expression for the purpose of granting or withholding relief, I have been required by statute to pay, and have paid, regard to the Code of the Press Complaints Commission. The Hello! Defendants broke their own industry's Code' (para 279). A private wedding The Judge found that Ms Zeta-Jones did not want to be forced to have a wedding in secret, but rather one she could share with her family and friends (para 29). He found that 'the wedding was as private as was possible consistent with it being a socially pleasant event... the wedding was not a celebrity event and I accept Miss Zeta-Jones's evidence that it was not intended to be one... the Douglases had no need to and did not themselves take any steps to stir up publicity for the event... It was, in my judgment, a private wedding' (paras 66-69). On the making of the exclusivity contract with OK!, the Judge said: 'I see their expectation that an exclusive contract to one selected publisher offered the best strategy for obtaining a wedding of the kind they both wanted and offered also the certainty of fair coverage of it as their chief reasons for making such a contract.' (para 52). He gave examples of the intrusions into her private life that Ms Zeta-Jones had suffered (para 9), which led her and Mr Douglas to make the arrangements they did make. The breach of confidence The judge concluded (paras 197-198): I ... regard photographic representation of the wedding reception as having had the quality of confidence about it. Of course, the general appearance of both Mr Douglas and Miss Zeta-Jones was no secret; what they looked like was well known to the public. But that does not deny the quality of commercial confidentiality to what they looked like on the exceptional occasion of their wedding. As I have said, the very facts that Hello! and OK! competed for exclusivity as they did and that each was ready to pay so much for it points to the commercial confidentiality of coverage of the event. The event was private in character and the elaborate steps to exclude the uninvited, to include only the invited, to preclude unauthorised photography, to control the authorised photography and to have had the [Douglas's] intentions in that regard made clear all conduce to that conclusion. Such images as were, so to speak, radiated by the event were imparted to those present, including Mr Thorpe and his camera, in circumstances importing an obligation of confidence. Everyone there knew that was so. In the circumstances as I have held them to be, Mr Thorpe knew (or at the very least ought to have known) that the [Douglases'] reasonably expected the private character of the event and photographic representation of it to be protected. As for the Hello! Defendants, their consciences were, in my view, tainted; they were not acting in good faith nor by way of fair dealing... They knew that OK! had an exclusive contract; as persons long engaged in the relevant trade, they knew what sort of provisions any such contract would include and that it would include provisions intended to preclude intrusion and unauthorised photography. Particularly would that be so where, as they knew, a very considerable sum would have had to have been paid for the exclusive rights which had been obtained. As to their knowledge of steps taken to protect the secrecy of the event, their own written text in their Issue 639 spoke of \"elaborate security procedures\". The surrounding facts were such that a duty of confidence should be inferred from them. The Hello! Defendants had indicated to paparazzi in advance that they would pay well for photographs and they knew the reputation of the paparazzi for being able to intrude. The unauthorised pictures themselves plainly indicated they were taken surreptitiously. Yet these Defendants firmly kept their eyes shut lest they might see what they undeniably knew would have become apparent to them. Breach of confidence apart, had the Hello! Defendants opened their eyes they would have seen that the taking of the photographs which they bought had involved at least a trespass...' Public figures The Judge said (para 201): 'A wedding is an exceptional event to any bride and groom and I do not hold that [MD and CZJ]s' position as public figures or as persons who had, as to other events, no doubt been tolerant of or even welcoming to publicity, as lessening their right, as any might have, to complain of intrusion at their wedding or of the consequences of that intrusion. It was an intrusion against which elaborate steps had been taken. I have in mind, too, that the steps taken by the Douglases were not taken solely for reward or as \"hype\" but were taken in a genuine and reasonable belief that thereby an offensive media frenzy would be avoided.' Freedom of expression and privacy The Judge said: 'Striking a balance between freedom of expression and confidentiality as directed by section 12 [of the Human Rights Act 1998] and the authorities to which I have referred, I have in mind that no public interest is claimed for the unauthorised pictures, either within the understanding of the phrase in the general law or within the terms of \"the relevant privacy code\", the Press Complaints Commission Code... Looking at that Code, there was an intrusion into individuals' private lives without consent; that intrusion was known or must be taken to have been known to the Hello! Defendants, as was also that it amounted to a failure to respect the Douglases' private and family lives. I have not understood any justification for the intrusion to have been advanced except Hello!'s wish to include as early as practicable some coverage of the event, an event which they were confident their readers would wish it to cover. I do not hold the intrusion to have been justified. The very same principle in the Code that provides that the use of long lenses to take pictures of people in private places without their consent was unacceptable must, as I read it, inescapably also make the surreptitious use of short lenses to take pictures of people in private places without their consent at least equally unacceptable. Moreover, on the day and in the surrounding circumstances, the parts of the Plaza Hotel in New York where the wedding ceremony and reception took place were private places in the sense, used by the Code, that they were places in respect of which there was a reasonable expectation of privacy. Given that Mr Thorpe, not an invitee, managed to effect an entry and took the trouble to wear a \"tuxedo\" in order to hold himself out as if a guest at the wedding, I hold also that the unauthorised photographs were obtained by misrepresentation or subterfuge. The PCC's Code was broken and the Hello! defendants either knew or, had they not closed their eyes to the truth, would have known and hence must be taken to have known, that that was the case' (paras 204-205). Damage The judge held: 'I have no doubt but that Mr Douglas and Miss Zeta-Jones both suffered real distress, .... An aspect of their distress, which led Miss Zeta-Jones to tears, was their wondering, if it was a guest, which of their guests it was that had betrayed them' (para 85). He explained: '199. It cannot be doubted but that the [Douglases] suffered detriment from the publication by the Hello! defendants. Distress was caused to [the Douglases] who also had to re-arrange their plans for approval of the authorised photographs. They incurred expenses that would otherwise have been unnecessary. They may also have suffered financial loss if it transpires that syndication receipts that would otherwise have become payable to them were lost upon syndication being either less extensive or less profitable than it would have been had not wedding photographs being published by Hello!. 200. As for OK!, it not only had costs in the re-arranging of its schedule so as to get out some of the authorised images as soon as possible to mitigate loss but it lost also the kudos of being and being seen to be the only one of the two leading rivals to be able to offer authorised coverage of the \"showbiz wedding of the year\". They may well have sold fewer copies of their magazine and have received less in respect of syndication rights than would have been the case had Hello! not published the unauthorised pictures'. Hello!'s conduct The Judge held that the Defendants had knowingly provided false evidence during the course of these proceedings as part of their defence to the claims against them, including at the original Court of Appeal hearing in November 2000 when the injunction restraining publication of Hello! was overturned (para 129): in particular Mr Sanchez-Junco, the owner of Hello! (paras 124 &amp; 128), Mr Riera, the managing director of Hola SA! (paras 121, 123 &amp; 170), and Hello!'s celebrity fixer, the Marquesa de Varela (para 112, 116),. The Judge also described the placing of false evidence before the Court of Appeal by the Hello! Defendants as \"lamentable, as also is the fact that, despite privilege having been waived, material questions remain incapable of answer\" (para 105). It was not the Douglases' choice that this case is now chiefly a money claim The Judge accepted that it was not the choice of MD and CZJ that this action is a claim for money as well as for an injunction. It was only a claim for money because the Court of Appeal in November 2000 ruled that the injunction obtained before publication of Hello! should be set aside, and that they would have to be satisfied with damages if they were to pursue their complaint (para 10). The law protecting privacy The judgment includes important restatements of the law of confidence, as it protects the right to private and family life, chiefly in paras 186-187, 210, 213, 216-7, 223-225. Since he found that MD and CZJ are adequately protected by the law of confidence as it has developed since the Human Rights Act 1998, as well as the Data Protection Act 1998, the Judge did not need to consider whether there is a need for any further development in the law of privacy. At para 229 the Judge expresses the view that if the existing law is found not to protect an individual who deserves protection, and if no new legislation is passed to remedy any gap in the law, then further developments of the law of privacy are likely to be made by the Judges. ---------------",
  "title": "Full summary of judgment",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "DOUGLAS v HELLO!",
  "id": "media/2003/apr/11/pressandpublishing.privacy4",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}