{
  "content": "I am regularly called upon to walk a fine line in the interests of seeing justice done. And I find that those on either side of that line often have a lack of understanding about my role. The source of that lack of understanding is the Contempt of Court Act 1981 and my relations with the media in ensuring three powerful and important rights are upheld - freedom of the press, the defendant's right to a fair trial, and the right of the public to be informed. The interaction between these three principles, and the need to strike an appropriate balance, is what makes this area so difficult. Earlier this month, for example, I sought and was granted an injunction in relation to recent arrests under the Terrorism Act. The Metropolitan police had informed me that identification was an issue in the case, and were clear that publishing photographs would seriously hinder the investigation. Once identification parades were held, the injunction was discharged. But my seeking the injunction was met with confusion in some quarters. Some saw it as the government interfering with the public's right to know. Let me make it absolutely clear - in seeking such injunctions or reminding the media of their obligations under the Contempt of Court Act, I am in no way attempting to gag the media or act as censor. I am not acting as an arbiter of taste or decency. I am not seeking to protect reputations or the privacy of individuals. And I am not acting as a member of the government; in exercising my powers in relation to contempt I act independently of the rest of government, and in the public interest. This is never a case of the \"government acting\" to curb newspaper comment but of the attorney general, traditional upholder of the public interest and the administration of justice, warning of a risk to our system of justice. So when the police or prosecution lawyers advise me that an investigation or trial is being put in jeopardy by press reporting, it is my duty to act. I must act to ensure that justice takes its proper course. And this may mean doing what is necessary to prevent distortion of the trial process in any criminal case, by preventing publication of material that might prejudice a fair trial. This is why I sought that injunction. Or even prosecuting for contempt where a prejudicial publication has already occurred, such as when the Sunday Mirror caused the almost-complete trial of Leeds footballers to be aborted at great public expense and dismay to the participants in the trial, or when a BBC broadcast blurted out the name of a sex victim who should have stayed anonymous and risked that trial being aborted too. I recognise the essential role the media play in alerting the public to threats. I recognise the positive contribution they make to the administration of justice, by the fair reporting of the trial process and by disseminating information and analysis about the working of the criminal justice system. And I recognise the right of the public to know these things. But I am also confident that none of us would want to see trial by media instead of trial by judge or jury. As I am confident that no member of the public would want to see a major criminal trial collapse because a judge ruled that prejudicial publicity prevented the defendant getting a fair trial. That would be the worst form of justice denied. The defendant's right to a fair trial is a fundamental principle of our criminal law. It goes to the heart of the judicial process. It is the bedrock on which our justice system stands. And any decent society is entitled to expect its justice system to operate effectively, fairly and in the interests of justice, rather than in the interest of selling stories. In a democracy, difficult decisions have to be taken and the balance of competing rights must be struck. The law of contempt is not a mere technicality dreamt up by lawyers with no relevance to the real world. If prejudicial reporting causes a trial to be delayed, or worse, abandoned, it is the public that suffers as well as the victims of crime. They suffer, being denied the right to an effective system of justice and to have the crime punished properly and fairly. Victims, witnesses, ordinary citizens - and yes, even suspects - suffer knowing that justice has been sidestepped. At the end of the day, it is up to the media to ensure they comply with the law. The injunctions which I seek, the guidances which I issue are designed not to impede but to enable journalists to do their job, without compromising either their professionalism or their independence. It remains my job to see justice done.",
  "title": "'I'm not trying to gag anyone'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "The attorney general  Peter Goldsmith  prevented pictures of terrorist suspects being published earlier this month, prompting criticism by some in the media. Here, he defends his decision.",
  "id": "media/2004/apr/19/mondaymediasection.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}