{
  "content": "More than 90% of UK teenagers have used a social networking website and more than half use them because their friends do, according to research. The survey of 11- to 20-year-olds, conducted by Q Research for MediaGuardian.co.uk, found that one-third of teenagers have at least four social networking profiles on sites such as MySpace, Facebook and Bebo. Of those surveyed, 93% said they had registered with a social networking site, and 19% said they \"couldn't live without it\". Fifty-four per cent said they started using the sites because of friends and just 5% dismissed social networking as a waste of time. Half of the teenagers questioned said they were worried about posting personal information online. Comments from teenagers surveyed suggested a heightened awareness of the risks of posting personal information online, with one stating that \"bad people, paedophiles, spammers and hackers\" might find their details on social networking sites. Some respondents said they only want their personal details available to friends. Only 7% of users said they did not trust information posted by others on social networking sites, but 49% said they only trusted profiles if they knew the person offline. Female users aged 16-20 were the most likely to trust information online, but were also the most cautious in posting their own personal information. More frequent users had fewer safety fears and trusted other information more. Joanna Shields, the Bebo international president, said that anthropologists will view social networking sites as part of a social turning point. \"When we were young, we'd cut our hair a certain way or put posters on our bedroom walls,\" she added. \"Now teenagers can display all the things that matter to them and they have a desire to express themselves. These sites bring out a lot of good and get teenagers to express themselves.\" Ms Shields said Bebo is not commonly used like a dating site, where users try and make new contacts, but is more a communication tool to contact existing friends. The profiles of Bebo members are only shown to friends if the user opts to make their profile public. Facebook is the same, but MySpace users have to opt to make their information private. Bebo has a full-time \"cyber doctor\" on staff to manage safety issues on the site and a three-stage report process for problem users, the most severe of which would be to notify the police. Ms Shields also noted the trend for politicians to start social networking profiles, but said it was not enough to simply have a presence on the site. \"If they just have a static profile, they won't get viewers. It's not about saying 'I've got a profile', but about being active and reading the site,\" she said. ComScore data from March showed that Bebo was the second busiest website in the UK in terms of time spent on the site, with users spending an average five hours 21 minutes on the site each month. The data ranked the site as the 16th most popular in the UK in unique users. Ms Shields said the average user spent 40 minutes on Bebo per session, and that 95% of the site's 32 million global unique users were under 30. However, the Q Research survey had less positive news for sites like Bebo that are planning to expand their services on to mobile. Teenagers were far less enthusiastic about social networking services on mobile phones, with 68% saying they are not interested. Concern about the cost of mobile data services was by far the most common response, but respondents also said services are easier to use on a PC because of bigger screens, easier navigation and faster connectivity. \"I don't see the point. Why should I waste money accessing the internet on my phone when I can get it for free at home?\", commented one teenager. \"It's a bit sad to be on them all the time,\" said another. \"Not everything in life should be about these sites.\" \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Most teens have used social net sites",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/myspace",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/web20"
  ],
  "lead": "8am: More than 90% of UK teenagers have used social networking sites, according to research. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "media/2007/may/17/digitalmedia.socialnetworking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}