{
  "content": "So you're angry about the growing database state \u2013 government and corporate \u2013 and you despair at the loss of our civil liberties. You're frustrated at the way the government ducks and hides its information while trying to pretend that it is being as honest and transparent as it can. What do you do about it? For an increasing number of people, using online tools, blogs and other social networks to hunt for information and then spread it for good use is the front line of the fightback. But will it have any impact? I hosted a lunchtime event at the Convention on Modern Liberty today - the bloggers' summit with Liberal Conspiracy and Comment is Free - where we wanted to explore this fightback. Joining me were Sam Smith from My Society, who briefly described some of the excellent tools their organisation has developed and warned that while some campaigns were very successful online (most notably the recent one on MPs' expenses) others could fail quickly if not executed properly. Starting a Facebook group or launching a petition were not the be all and end all of campaigning. Heather Brooke, who runs Your Right To Know, and has written a book of the same name, then spoke about how she used FOI requests to dig up information around crime and related issues. She mentioned that while newspapers had cut down on such reporting, and even paid freelancers pitifully for investigations compared to comment pieces, there was a lot of opportunity to use online tools to make information requests and try to hold authorities to account. Heather's blog, intriguingly, also has a section where she outsources her requests and open issues. That attempt at sharing information and outsourcing work is a way forward, I think. Ben Goldacre of Bad Science infamy followed with examples of how many bloggers, academics, statisticians and even accounts have collaborated online to expose vital information on how medical companies were pushing out wrong information or were trying to fool consumers. He offered some excellent examples illustrating how people working together online, each using their own specialisms, had exposed big pharmaceutical companies. The medical community is no doubt ahead of political bloggers in evidence-based work that various people pick up and run with, to devastating effect for \"the quacks\". Phil Booth from No2ID then finished with the point that his campaign had started simply with a straightforward blog and a small joint event. And now it is a huge grassroots organisation that, through diligent attention to detail and wading through tons of material, has forced the government to backtrack on some of its plans or admit to facts it had earlier denied. In other words, once again, group work and digging can lead to results. The discussion that followed was interesting \u2013 focusing on two major issues: how libel law was being used to shut down investigative journalism or opinion across the blogosphere, and how difficult to decipher was the government's data, which we should have easy access to. Both will no doubt remain ongoing issues and rallying causes (as Ben Goldacre himself witnessed recently). The general consensus, though, was much more heartening than I thought it would be. There are some brilliant people out there burrowing away at data and trying to dig out information to create a better democracy. What we need is a more collaborative environment where people share information and work together to achieve results. We also need action as well as the complaints \u2013 and there are plenty of examples across the internet where this has delivered excellent results. If you want to challenge this assault on our civil liberties, it's time to get involved.",
  "title": "Sunny Hundal: Angry about assaults on our civil liberties? Start investigating abuses and defending rights online",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "politics/freedomofinformation",
    "law/human-rights",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Sunny Hundal: The Convention on Modern Liberty: Angry about assaults on our civil liberties? Start investigating abuses and defending our rights online",
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2009/feb/28/convention-modern-liberty-data",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}