{
  "content": "On 5 March this year, an ad appeared on the spectacularly popular video-sharing website, YouTube. The person who posted it identified him or herself as 'ParkRidge47' - the place where Hillary Clinton grew up and her year of birth - but the video did not appear to have originated anywhere near that presidential candidate's camp. An updated version of Ridley Scott's famous Apple Macintosh ad from 1984, it took the Orwell-inspired original, in which armies of grey-faced workers are lectured to from a vast television screen by a fearsomely Nazi-like dictator, and replaced the face and voice of Big Brother with those of Hillary Clinton. 'One month ago I began a conversation with all of you,' she says from the screen, addressing the masses she refers to as 'hard-working'. A digital subtitle appears across her face: 'This is our conversation', before a colourfully clad sprinter races up to the screen and smashes it with a mallet. The ad sought to show how little like an actual conversation Hillary's one-way mode of address is, and its brilliance was that the form and the content were beautifully entwined: the anonymous posting was itself the equivalent of the girl with the mallet - a way of smashing the old order of demagoguery and spin by surreptitiously democratic digital means. The ad, entitled 'Vote Different', ended by transforming the Apple logo into an 'O', underneath which was written: barackobama.com. Negative advertising is a popular sport in American politics (in 2000, George Bush did it subliminally, by flashing the word 'Rats' over Al Gore's promises). Yet the new '1984' ad, while conceptually ingenious and technically accomplished, hardly seemed in keeping with Barack Obama's gentlemanly modus operandi. Where had it come from? No one seemed to know. The Obama campaign denied any involvement, and Clinton's claimed to be equally clueless. Within days, the 'Vote Different' ad had, as the digitally savvy world likes to say, 'gone viral'. It was picked up by progressive blogs, by conservative blogs, by advertising blogs - and then by the mainstream media. The San Francisco Chronicle hailed it as 'a watershed moment in 21st-century media and political advertising', and every time the ad received any kind of coverage from then on, it would send viewers to YouTube to look at it. As of last week, 'Vote Different' had been seen by more than 3 million people and discussed ad infinitum, making an ad that was disseminated for free and apparently independently of a political campaign far more effective than any official ad made by the presidential candidates in the 2008 race so far. 'ParkRidge47', who remained anonymous, became an instant YouTube celebrity, a poster child for the idea that anyone can have a widely heard voice. Interviewed on TechPresident.com, a new website designed to track the 2008 candidates' use of the internet, ParkRidge47 proudly said that 'considering Hillary Clinton's biggest video has only received 12,000 views on YouTube, I'd say the grassroots has won the first round'. Still in the dark as to the identity of ParkRidge47, by now the most famous anonymous political commentator since Joe Klein wrote Primary Colors, Barack Obama was asked about the ad on Larry King Live. 'In some ways,' he said, 'it's the democratisation of the campaign process, but it's not something we had anything to do with or were aware of and, frankly, given what it looks like, we don't have the technical capacity to create something like this. It's pretty extraordinary.' As it turned out, that couldn't have been further from the truth. The ad was made by a young political nerd in his living room one Sunday afternoon, using an editing programme called Final Cut Studio on his MacBook. Phil de Vellis, aka ParkRidge47, was outed by Arianna Huffington, the influential editor of online magazine Huffington Post, who sent a team of journalistic gumshoes out to find him. When she rang De Vellis and asked point-blank whether he had made the ad, he did not deny it, and Huffington asked him to write a column explaining the story ('Hi. I'm Phil,' his column began, 'I did it. And I'm proud of it'). De Vellis, it transpired, was a senior strategist at Blue State Digital, an internet consulting firm that had been involved in Barack Obama's online campaign, and he had composed the ad without their knowledge. Not wanting to get his employers or his preferred candidate into trouble, he resigned from his job as soon as his identity was revealed. Despite his sadness over this particular turn of events, De Vellis was keen to encourage others to do the same. No high-end equipment was involved, he said when interviewed: 'This shows that the future of American politics rests in the hands of ordinary citizens.' He made 'Vote Different', he said, because he was 'frustrated by the way politicians in general are using video, treating it just like they treat TV, and I wanted to make a statement saying that you have to do more - you have to actually interact with your audience out there, and a pretend conversation is not enough'. He declared triumphantly that 'the old political machine is over. This ad was not the first citizen ad, and it will not be the last. The game has changed.' It has indeed. 2008 has already been repeatedly referred to as 'the YouTube election', and candidates are all trying to keep up. During the last presidential election, bloggers were the new digital phenomenon to contend with; now YouTube has taken precedence, and it has the potential for much more dramatic effect. The site was founded in February 2005, not long after George Bush had won a second term. (In November last year it was bought by Google.) Because its content is largely unregulated it has, in the course of this first presidential race since its founding, come into its own by giving citizens an outlet and a function. Where blogs offer commentary, video-sharing provides a way for anyone to judge a candidate for themselves, with their own eyes. Though the site is not a political one, its sublimely rogue influence on national politics was clear before the race began. Last summer, George Allen, the Republican Senator from Virginia, publicly addressed a campaign operative from the opposing side who was videotaping him (as is traditional) in the hope of finding negative material for an ad. He called the campaign worker, who was of Indian descent, 'macaca'. The racist epithet flew onto YouTube in no time - why bother to spend time and money making an ad when you can bring down a politician instantly with his own gun? Allen lost his campaign for re-election. Now - perhaps inspired by De Vellis's stark depiction of politicians' 'pretend conversations' - YouTube has teamed up with CNN to host a debate with all the Democratic presidential candidates on 23 July. Instead of the usual format of presidential debates, which involves carefully vetted people in suits asking questions that have been prepared long in advance, the YouTube CNN debate, which will be moderated by CNN's star anchorman Anderson Cooper, is inviting all American citizens to submit questions via video, and to be 'creative' in their concoctions. Among the questions already posted are: 'Hey, Hillary, who's going to run the White House? You or Bill?'; 'Will you allow congressional hearings into alien landings?'; and 'Which is more dangerous, alcohol or marijuana?' Keen that the debate should not be limited to YouTube aficionados, the website's news and politics editor Steve Grove made an announcement encouraging viewers to go out with their cameras, seek people who do not have access to the internet (a quarter of Americans don't) and videotape their questions. Andrew Rasiej, co-founder of TechPresident, feels the organisers of the debate aren't going far enough. Why, he wondered when I spoke to him, do the questions still have to be filtered through CNN? 'It's a backhanded compliment by mainstream media to the internet,' says Rasiej. 'If we're really going to start thinking about better ways to have less sound-bite politics, then we should be looking at the entire ecology of this. The notion that you can keep the tools of the internet out of the hands of voters who will influence the campaign among themselves is preposterous.' 'You wouldn't have guessed, would you, that so many interesting controversies turn on video,' says Michael Kinsley, founding editor of the first serious online magazine, Slate. You think a quote's a quote, he muses, but no: what can be shown has far more impact than what is merely said. 'And it's amazing how many things are being videotaped,' he adds wryly. 'You're sort of afraid to go outside.' Thanks to the lesson of George Allen, candidates are wary of being caught in their own 'macaca moments'. Mitt Romney, the Republican candidate who most closely resembles an inhabitant of Stepford, told the New York Times last month that he was unable to let his guard down because 'running for President in the YouTube era, you realise you have to be very judicious in what you say'. 'The candidates still think that every time a video camera is on them, it's television,' Andrew Rasiej explains, 'so they start acting the part. They don't realise that video on the web is an entirely different medium that requires a different set of sensibilities, and it's easily recognisable to the viewer when the candidate is not being authentic. Unfortunately there are still going to be these \"gotcha\" moments, but my argument is that the way to fight the gotcha moments is not by being defensive but by embracing the technology and producing lots of high-quality authentic content yourself.' The media research firm PQ Media, which has reported that campaigns spent $29m on web ads and email marketing in 2004, now estimates that the 2008 figure could reach $80m. But even that figure is perhaps less relevant than the advent of the random element - the impact of the web activity that candidates don't pay for. 'There's something naturally dissident about it,' says Kinsley, with pleasure. Rasiej thinks it's a mistake to suppose that only 'viral' videos such as De Vellis's 'Vote Different' ad can have an effect. He suggests, rather, that if one person who lives next to a lake whose high-water mark is 20 feet lower than it was 20 years ago makes a video showing that and saying he'll vote for the candidate with the best environmental policy, all he has to do is send it to 10 friends, who'll then pass it on, to make an impact. 'What the internet has done,' says Rasiej, encapsulating the change, 'is it's taken the conversations over the backyard fence, or around the water cooler, and put them on steroids.' Now every citizen can be an advertiser or an auteur. You can see, at the click of a mouse, John McCain's or Mitt Romney's trail of self contradictions or 'flip-flops'. Another popular video is of John Edwards, who famously spent 400 campaign dollars on a haircut, styling his hair before a TV interview. The video unfolds to the tune of 'I Feel Pretty', harking back to Paul Wolfowitz's horrendous spit-combing in Fahrenheit 9/11 and making its author something of a home-made Michael Moore. In fact, YouTube may well put Michael Moore out of business - documented events and their instant dissemination could simply move too fast for him to keep up. The notion of a 'citizen ad' is an intriguing one, suggesting as it does both a citizen's arrest - the idea of doing something without pay for the public good - and Citizen Kane. You can, from the privacy (and affordability) of your own home, have an effect akin to that of a mogul. Professor Kathleen Hall Jamieson, director of the Annenberg Public Policy Centre at the University of Pennsylvania, and one of the country's leading experts on advertising in political campaigns, considers this development and says: 'There's a saying in the United States, \"The press is free for anyone who owns one.\" That's no longer true. You still have to have some income, because you have to have a computer, but the cost of getting access to the public has dropped dramatically - and that goes back to the early days of the republic, when there was more capacity to simply post things. The American revolution was fed by individuals who could easily get things into circulation, in part because the public was so small. When we moved to mass channels of communication, the ability of the individual to affect politics dropped, and to some extent that's been regained now. It changes the rules, and I think it's healthy.' Is YouTube the ultimate form of democracy, then, a means by which voters can have their say and politicians can really listen? Or is it something to be feared, a kind of anarchic 24-hour surveillance? You can imagine a scenario along the lines of The Manchurian Candidate, in which moving images are inserted into one's brain and reappear, unbidden, at intervals: the entire voting process would be made of up rewind and replay, and the election would unfurl like a bad dream - or a good music video, depending on your YouTube tastes. Early last month, just as Hillary Clinton was asking her web followers to vote on which of her preferred tunes should provide the theme song for her campaign, a mysterious music video appeared on YouTube under the name 'Obamagirl'. By the time Hillary announced on her website that Celine Dion's 'You and I' had won the campaign song vote - with a clever and much-publicised spoof video of the final scene of The Sopranos, starring herself as Tony and Bill as her 'wife' - Obamagirl's contribution had already become the song of the summer and effortlessly added cool and kudos to Barack Obama's campaign. 'Hey, B, it's me,' a beautiful, pneumatic girl whispers into a phone, in a brilliant parody of every faux-soul pop song ever produced. 'If you're there, pick up. I was just watching you on C-Span.' Then, against various backdrops of Barack Obama looking like a Men's Health magazine cover, she sings (or, as it turns out, lip-synchs) the following: 'You seemed to float onto the floor/Democratic convention 2004/I never wanted anybody more/than I want you'. The painfully catchy chorus is: 'I've got a crush on Obama', and certain lines, such as 'you can Barack me tonight', will surely prove as immortal as Obamagirl's bright red 'Obama'-labelled hot pants. The people behind the ad were nothing to do with Obama himself (note how Obama attracts the most talented renegades to his side) but a 21-year-old undergraduate named Leah Kauffman, who sang the song and wrote it with her 32-year-old advertising executive friend Ben Relles and her producer Rick Friedrich. The team found a model called Amber Lee Ettinger to play the part. Kauffman and Relles had previously made a hilarious music video skit for Saturday Night Live that both parodied and starred Justin Timberlake (title: 'My Dick in a Box'). But this time they were short of a filmmaker and eventually found one by placing an ad on Craigslist. Some volunteers replied and they all hit the streets of Manhattan with a DV camera two hours later. The video had more than a million hits on YouTube within four days - something of an internet fairy tale. During the 1956 presidential campaign, the Democratic party hired Dore Schary, the head of MGM studios, to try to mould the image of its candidate, Adlai Stevenson. Stevenson, a sharp-tongued intellectual who eventually lost to Eisenhower for the second time in a row, found the entire process humiliating. 'The idea that you can merchandise candidates for high office like breakfast cereal... is the ultimate indignity to the democratic process,' he complained. In The Hidden Persuaders, a seminal book published the following year, Vance Packard sought to show how we were all affected by subliminal advertising, and how politicians also used this to their advantage. In the YouTube era, though there is less spin, the 'hidden persuaders' are arguably even more hidden: anonymous posters on the internet. How can we avoid the sinister implications of negative advertising from indecipherable sources? Phil de Vellis addressed this question when he said he thought the system regulated itself: 'If someone put out an ad that was untruthful or underhand, we'd find out who it was,' he said. 'An ad generally only goes viral if there's some truth in it.' Kathleen Hall Jamieson, who aside from her academic duties also runs factcheck.org, a non-profit organisation dedicated to checking the accuracy of US campaign ads, suggests that this new surreptitious threat is small because the same risk applies to TV ads anyway. 'There never has been any way of ensuring that the ads that you see are reliable in the United States, because bona fide political candidates have protection against any form of censorship. So as a broadcast station, you must air an ad for a candidate if you've aired an ad for the alternative candidate.' If Packard had more foresight than Stevenson, even he did not predict the developments of the Sixties, which began with the first televised presidential debates - four exchanges between Kennedy and Nixon, seen by an extraordinary 70 million viewers - and which continued with what is still considered the most effective political ad of all time, Lyndon Johnson's 'Daisy' ad of 1964. The ad, which cut from a young girl counting the petals on a daisy to a mushroom cloud, implied that Barry Goldwater would lead the nation into a nuclear war. It was shown only once - and that once brought Goldwater down. (You can find it online too.) The advent of YouTube in the 2008 election is, Jamieson believes, a watershed moment comparable to these because, as she puts it, 'it changes the structure underlying the political discussion'. Chuck DeFeo, who ran the Bush-Cheney online campaign in 2004 and who describes himself as 'the old man in this field', having been involved in online politics for the past 12 years, remembers a time when 'those of us who were doing this were waiting for the 1960 moment: the moment television became the dominant medium candidates used to communicate to the electorate. We were excited about that, because it was traditionally seen as a positive moment. But the more I look back on that, it was the moment in which broadcast - that one-to-many model - became the dominant way in which campaigns communicated, and that probably wasn't a healthy thing. Because candidates started to look at the electorate as an audience to talk at, rather than to talk with. Prior to that it was really grassroots effort. That's how campaigns were run for centuries. And now with the rise of the internet there is the ability to have a true dialogue with the voter.' Of course, what effect all of this will really have on votes remains to be seen. An example often cited to suggest that the possibilities of the internet may have been overblown is that of Howard Dean, who in the run-up to the last election built an unprecedented community of online supporters, and then failed to win the Democratic nomination when it came to actual votes. Dean raised more money than any other Democrat last time around and did so primarily through an entirely novel method that is now being taken up and extended by Barack Obama: instead of turning to the wealthy few, as candidates traditionally have, he raised funds online from a collection of ordinary citizens who each gave an average of $80 (the legal limit for donations is $2,000 per person). The method itself was inexpensive, and the average donation size so small it meant that Dean built up an email list of donors whom he could continue to tap for money throughout the election season. So what went wrong? Andrew Rasiej regrets the fact that 'everyone's trying to point to the internet as the linchpin for the success or failure of his campaign. The notion that online prowess is automatically going to deliver success offline is a mistake, but it's also a mistake to think that offline traditional politics can ignore the power of the internet. Our site exists as a way of keeping track of the pulse or the pace, but we're not saying that just because Barack Obama has three times as many YouTube viewers or Facebook friends as Hillary that means he's going to be elected as the nominee. You need a whole bunch of things to work.' Still, what Obama is doing with the internet - regardless of what people on the internet are doing independently for him - is very smart. He has begun with the Howard Dean model - a large number of small-scale donors - but he's asking them to do more than contribute. He's encouraging them to build networks of friends, to meet other supporters, even to date each other. 'They're being solicited in a different way,' Rasiej explains. 'It's the psychology of the message as well as the techniques used to deliver it that are important. He uses language that promotes voter-empowerment. Look at his site: you can have your own blog, you can create your own social network. They're not afraid of having extraneous people on their site - there aren't a lot of angry people attacking Barack Obama on the web leaving nasty notes on his website - as opposed to Hillary Clinton, who's not in a position to open herself up that way.' Obama has hired Chris Hughes, the 23-year-old co-founder of the social networking site Facebook, to run his online campaign. John Edwards has hired a 19-year-old whiz named George Stern. Of all the Democratic candidates, these two have been the savviest and most successful at harnessing the power of the internet. Republicans, Rasiej suggests, 'have a much harder time with the culture of the internet, which encourages openness and collaboration, because for decades they've been so successful at delivering messages in a top-down format. It's almost as if you're trying to get one operating system to work with another - like trying to get Microsoft to work with Macs. It's a cultural disconnect.' But Chuck DeFeo is highly knowledgable and delighted by what's going on now. 'We circulated several web videos attacking Kerry's record or putting out the President's positive message,' he tells me, 'but there was no site like YouTube for us to be able to distribute a video like that. We were dependent on our email list, or it would get played on the news. Today, any campaign can distribute a video on YouTube and reach hundreds of thousands, maybe a million folks, in a very cost-effective manner - that's a powerful thing.' YouTube may even spell the death of the focus group. 'You know, things are evolving. Everyone's trying to figure this out,' he reflects. 'YouTube is one huge focus group, a large marketplace of ideas - some goofy ideas, like the dog riding the skateboard, but there's some intelligent stuff going on there too. It's much more representative than what you can get with a dozen people in a conference room.' What will happen in the future - either next year or in elections to come - is anyone's guess. Michael Kinsley, who weathered a good deal of scepticism when he founded Slate, thinks that these 'cheap shots, which are delightful', will be less damaging in four years' time, because everyone will be used to them by then. 'There was a time when people were making the same speculations about email,' he says, 'or television. Or arms and legs for that matter. Soon it'll be part of life - it won't be worthy of comment.' Rasiej says he can imagine that eventually, when the generation that's being raised with these tools runs for office, entire campaigns will actually be run inside Facebook. Jamieson, who is in charge of the largest academic survey done on the electorate, says that every academic in her field is asking the question of how this will translate into votes. She expects that 'it will take two more elections before we have a really good answer to the internet question'. I ask DeFeo at what point he thinks this brave new democracy will spill over into anarchy, and he laughs. 'Well, I'm going to paraphrase Jefferson,' he says: 'A little revolution's healthy for our republic. So we'll see what happens.' Watch the top ten Presidential candidate YouTube moments",
  "title": "From the web to the White House",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/politics",
    "technology/youtube",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "culture/culture",
    "politics/politics",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Since the 1960 face-offs between Kennedy and Nixon, televsion has been the dominant medium in US presidential election campaigns. But the advent of YouTube has changed all that. Now it's the internet that has become the key political battleground for 2008. But is this the birth of a new democraticatising medium - or just a passing fad, asks Gaby Wood",
  "id": "technology/2007/jul/08/politics.youtube",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}