{
  "content": "In 10 years' time social media will have been around for 30 or so years. Online communities began in the mid-90s and blogging a little later. Accessing sites like Facebook and Myspace in the office was frowned upon in those early days and most IT policies had strict restrictions forbidding what were then deemed non-work-related activities. People tended to hide behind avatars and nicknames on social media rather than being themselves. Since that time, only a few short years ago, the growth both in usage and functionality has been extraordinary. Social media is now far more firmly embedded in daily life with people far more likely to post using their real name and personal profile. Today it is individuals rather than brands that are playing a strong role in building influence and many charities actively encourage their staff to engage on Twitter and Facebook as they've realised the potential. This erosion of boundaries between professional and personal has implications for how teams will be managed and structured, particularly those teams that communicate externally with service users and supporters. Everyone's a spokesperson now, so give them the tools to be a good one! The fundamental benefit of social media for charities and their brands is the ability to connect directly with supporters and to use this connection to strengthen relationships and build trust. Making connections will continue to be important but charities must learn to listen to supporters and engage actively. Customer reviews on sites like Tripadvisor and Amazon are a big influence on purchasing behaviour. Will charities be brave enough to communicate openly what their supporters are saying about them and will that openness influence donor choice? Charities will have to find the flexibility and nimbleness to use the tools that are available, get better at sharing video content, more used to trying new things, less worried about failing. Perhaps social media will encourage charities to act as a conduit to share their beneficiaries' opinions and experience rather than speaking on their behalf. Perhaps charities will even help their supporters make direct connections with beneficiaries through the tools available. Service delivery charities are starting to use technology like Skype and Google Hangouts to delivery service online. I predict that this will grow and will have a transforming effect as charities will be able to reach more people, beyond national borders. I'm old enough to have worked in marketing pre-web. It took organisations a long time to work out what the internet was even for and many hesitated to create their own web sites, worrying about how to manage the \"extra\" traffic. Today the web is probably the first place we think to put our messages and online purchasing is enormous. I think the same will become true of social media. It will be mainstreamed into communications plans and will no longer be an add-on or stand alone. I hope that charities will learn the lessons that social media has to teach about openness and become more transparent themselves as a result. This is what their supporters expect and transparency will bring deeper loyalty. But will it raise any money? Social media is a two-way communications channel. It's noisy and it's crowded. The beauty of it for charities is that by using it well they can build trust by doing some of the things mentioned above, increase the noise they make by allowing staff and supporters to engage with their publics as ambassadors of their brand, and inspire more people to support them. And doing all of those things - combined with the basic ingredients that have always been essential for effective fundraising: clear need, clear ask, clear explanation of how a donation will make a difference, loud thank you - will raise you money. Lucy Caldicott is the fundraising director at CLIC Sargent For more updates and opinions on the challenges and opportunities facing the voluntary sector, join our network or follow us on Twitter @GdnVoluntary. If you have an idea or a suggestions don't hesitate to email us on voluntarysectornetwork@theguardian.com.",
  "title": "10 years' time: social media and the future of fundraising",
  "lead": "By distinguishing a clear need, clear ask and a clear explanation of how a donation will make a difference charities can raise money through social media in the next 10 years",
  "tags": [
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network-blog",
    "voluntary-sector-network/fundraising",
    "voluntary-sector-network/10-years-time",
    "society/charities",
    "society/voluntarysector",
    "society/society",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "voluntary-sector-network/2014/feb/06/10-years-time-social-media-and-fundraising",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}