{
  "content": "Get your Dutch tulips out of storage folks. At first glance it looks mighty like a new tech bubble is upon us, as we manically press for Twitter 'n' Facebook updates on our hyper sensitive touch screen devices. Twitter is for sale for a valuation of, oh, $8bn or $10bn on forecast sales of just $110m this year. Now this is at the top end even by Silicon Valley's exalted standards - last seen when YouTube went for a 100 times sales - a similar multiple - when it was bought by Google. You can cast your mind back to YouTube and ask whether that purchase has delivered much for Google, given the immense cost of video hosting. Google doesn't like to talk about YouTube numbers (figures are kept secret to protect the guilty), but there was some hope the video sharing site might make some money in 2010. After losing an nearly $500m during 2009. But let's not worry about that just yet. The first question is that there are two motivated buyers - and they can afford to pay big. This no ordinary auction; it's more Man City versus Chelsea than the rational business of buying companies for between 6 and 12 times last year's earnings. Particularly if they get to use paper. Google is worth $200bn so printing $10bn of new shares is not much more than a rounding error, and with $35bn of cash on the balance sheet it can sweeten the deal with serious money too. Facebook, meanwhile, may well be going public on a preposterous valuation of its own - $50bn market cap on perhaps $2bn of sales. However, Mark Zuckerberg's social network may not have so much cash on hand, but it would have give Twitter shareholders a greater slice of its equity, and hence more influence in the future. Facebook plus Twitter at $60bn is probably not much more excitable than Facebook at $50bn. So, yes, there is a bubble valuation for Twitter, but like the \u00a350m valuation for Fernando Torres, it is driven by what others with cash are able to pay. But would a merger be a good deal for either's business? In truth, it is hard to know - and although the synergies are not obvious, you can see Twitter in a portfolio with either. Nevertheless, like YouTube, Twitter is unique. It captures a unique form of short, immediate online activity - one that is so powerful that people have already begun to structure their lives around it. You can argue that YouTube turned out to be a bad deal, but Google's share price is up by a third since the acquisition, so the problems with YouTube have hardly weighed on the Google stock. Inflated acquisitions have long been the Silicon Valley way; some are transformative, but like many speculative moves, most are not. Such risk taking is part of the point. There is a point too about the prospects for the great US technology stocks. A successful internet firm massively overdelivers. Google had revenues of $86m in 2001 - and $29bn in 2010. That's why it has the value it has - and its value will drive that of those around it. Facebook's $2bn could easily turn into something 10 times greater in a decade if it can harness behavioural targeting and master concerns about privacy. And its market value will soar from $50bn to something much larger if investors think it has a chance. That is how the US market values growth. It is the valuations and the prospects of the large players that drive bubble valuations - because the market believes the big guys will buy up the next wave of maturing start-ups. And while, bubbles tend not to be rational by definition, it is always a mistake not to play along. The skill, instead, is to work out when they are about to end - and to avoid using too much cold hard cash when nicely inflated paper will do just fine. Tulips anyone?",
  "title": "Twitter valuation makes some sense",
  "lead": "Dan Sabbagh: So, is $10bn for Twitter crazy money, or does it actually make sense by Silicon Valley's inflated standards....",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/silicon-valley"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/organgrinder/2011/feb/10/twitter-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}