{
  "content": "However you feel about Farmville and Zynga's other 'social' games, the phenomenal success they've enjoyed means it was only ever going to be a matter of time before the big gaming companies tried to muscle in on the action. I attended an EA event a few weeks back announcing the launch of 'Fifa Online', a browser-based football sim aimed at tapping into this burgeoning social gaming market. The game - available as a free download on the EA website - is the first attempt by the company to create a title which prioritises social interaction and accessibility above gameplay. Fifa Online is very impressive for a free download, particularly graphically. Using your mouse as a controller seems counter-intuitive, but isn't quite as cumbersome as you'd imagine once you get used to it. Borrowing heavily from MMORPG titles as well as popular 'social' games, players earn points and coins by completing matches, gaining experience to essentially 'level up' their players, as well as unlocking items which can be 'consumed' to give boosts to different aspects of the team. You can also meet fellow supporters of your club in the equivalent of 'clans' - the game is intended to be as much about chatting to your opponent as it is about beating them. All well and good, and something I can see taking off hugely, especially as it can be played at the office or in school computer rooms. Taking the social side of World of Warcraft and fusing it with a sport title is a great idea - and anything that brings gamers together is to be lauded. But the thing I worry about is - if you'll excuse a little moralising here - the micropayments system fundamental to this sort of game's business model. Although exact details were somewhat sketchy at the time of my demo, the experience points and special items used to boost players will almost certainly also be available to be bought using real money - just like on Farmville. Thing is, on Farmville, the only really temptation to buy a big house or extra space was to make your farm look a bit nicer. If you want to spend \u00a34 on a pixelated barn, and that makes you happy, then fair enough. Fifa Online, on the other hand, allows you to spend money on helping you beat your friends. Spending \u00a36.50 on turning Lucas Leiva into Michael Essien might not seem like a sound purchase for many of us, but I imagine it's only a matter of time before kids start spending their pocket money - or using their parents credit cards - solely on non-tangible items to win games with. You can't really blame EA for trying to exploit this market - who wouldn't want to sell items that cost literally nothing to produce? But charging for power-ups is a murky road to go down. EA has been the first large developer to jump, but it's only a matter of time before a shoot-em-up is released where you can pay \u00a320 for the best gun, or 50p for a health power-up, and large numbers of people end up frittering money away on something that is, literally, nothing. Aside from being somewhat irresponsible tempting children to waste money like this, it also devalues those who grind their way up to earn their status in the game. Fifa Online represents a worrying trend for gaming, I think, no matter how fun it may be. Fifa World Cup 2010 Moralising over (well, sort of). EA also announced details of this summer's World Cup tie in release, and I got to have a play around with it. It is essentially exactly the same game as Fifa 2010 but with some superficial tweaks - begging the question whether it would have made more sense to make it available as downloadable content - but the small changes they have made are pleasing enough. Player likenesses and kits for all the probable squads have been enhanced, and each nation's manager has been included, prancing around on the sidelines between phases of play. Menus are branded with official World Cup logos and the like. The grass looks a bit nicer too. It's a cynical release by EA but let's face it, if you want to watch the World Cup and play the definitive game alongside it, you'll probably end up buying it. Look out for our review in a couple of months.",
  "title": "EA unveil ... Fifa Farmville?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/games",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/xbox",
    "technology/playstation",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/casual-gaming",
    "technology/games-consoles"
  ],
  "lead": "Electronic Arts announce new 'social' gaming platform ... along with an obligatory World Cup game",
  "id": "technology/gamesblog/2010/feb/15/fifa-farmville-world-cup",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}