{
  "content": "Privacy rights may be extended to the dead if the estate of Princess Diana wins a high court battle for videotapes of her to be kept confidential. The estate claims that broadcast of the tapes - which show the late princess at Kensington Palace talking about her life to her voice trainer, Peter Settelen - would breach Diana's right to privacy. Protection of privacy currently only applies to the living. The unprecedented claim, which could also have implications for accessing documents about other famous people who have died, is expected to be made in court as part of a dispute between Mr Settelen and the estate over ownership of six of the 20 tapes. The six tapes are held by the Metropolitan Police, which seized them from the home of former royal butler Paul Burrell in January 2001 when he was arrested for allegedly stealing from his former employer. All charges against Mr Burrell were dropped in November 2002. A hunt is on for a further 12 tapes that have gone missing. It is unclear whether the issue of their ownership, or that of another two tapes on loan to American broadcaster NBC, will be fought over between Mr Settelen and the estate. The estate is expected to claim that the tapes - made as part of a private training session - should never be made public because to do so would breach Diana's right to privacy. Applying privacy laws to Diana means that videos and written documents of all those who have died could be kept secret forever if their relatives can prove that broadcast or publication breaches privacy rights. \"It could have a severe impact on researchers having access to historic documents,\" said Mark Stephens, a media lawyer. While the privacy case applies to at least six of the tapes, it is expected that emphasis will be made by the estate in relation to just one. Currently held by Scotland Yard, this video - details of which have been leaked to the media - shows the princess \"talking candidly\" about her life from the age of six until her marriage to Prince Charles 13 years later. The privacy argument was dismissed by Marcus Rutherford, Mr Settelen's lawyer, as \"absurd\". \"Diana knew she was being filmed and placed no restrictions on the use of the material,\" he said. \"Also, why exactly should a dead person enjoy what are in effect privacy rights, when he or she does not legally possess a reputation after death?\" He also claimed that most of the information on the tapes was already in the public domain. The two tapes loaned to NBC were broadcast as part of documentaries aired in March. The American network is seeking to sell the shows to a British broadcaster. Mr Settelen made the loan in order to pay for his lawyers' fees, despite last year promising never to allow them to become public. Mr Settelen's lawyer said his client changed his mind after the details of what was on some of them were published in the Daily Mail. \"Peter felt that if these tapes are no longer private then let's have them out,\" said Mr Rutherford, who also claims Scotland Yard refused to let him inspect the tapes in preparation for the trial. The case was originally set to be heard earlier this year following the collapse of mediation talks in December, but the high court has now said it will hear the case in September. Mr Settelen is expected to win ownership of the physical tapes as he was the one who paid for them, but the case case will also focus on ownership of the copyright of the tapes. John Magnin of Nicholson Graham &amp; Jones, the estate's lawyer, declined to answer calls. \u00b7 Brendan Malkin is senior reporter at the Lawyer \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Diana case heralds new privacy battle",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/television",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "uk/diana",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "uk/uk",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "8am: Privacy rights may be extended to the dead if the estate of Princess Diana wins a high court battle for videotapes of her to be kept confidential. By Brendan Malkin",
  "id": "media/2004/jun/17/privacy.broadcasting",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}