{
  "content": "With approximately 2bn users between them, it would be easy to forgive people for believing that most sharing happens on social platforms such as Facebook and Twitter. But they are wrong. Very wrong, in fact. The majority of sharing happens in what has been dubbed \"dark social\", the silent but active underbelly of the web. The majority of sharing happens in ways that include email and instant messenger (although people are finding new ways of sharing on mobile platforms). Sharing is great, so what is the problem? The problem is that such areas are hard to measure and measuring is important if we are to understand these emerging platforms. How big is the problem? Recent data from RadiumOne suggested that 72% of sharing is copying and pasting. However, delving further into the data we find that it varies between sectors. Sharing information about cars via dark platforms, for example, is more than double that for sport (38.3%), FMCG (fast-moving consumer goods) clients can expect to see about 61% of their traffic from dark platforms. This data is interesting in itself but the behaviours surrounding FMCG and finance, for instance, are very different, as people are fine to share their musical tastes but are less likely to talk about their bank account. Knowing is not enough Working with brands and agencies, I am always surprised by how little is known about this area and how little it is brought to bear on strategies. Often sites have no \"share with a friend\" option or the mentality is \"go for the like button\". Little or no attention is paid to how people will share content and this \u2013 in my opinion \u2013 needs to change if we want to learn to spread information better. This problem is not going away The issue is monitoring. Users are able to share in a myriad of ways that disables (unintentionally in most cases) the brand's ability to see where their traffic is coming from and who likes them. While it is unlikely in the short term that we will see where all traffic originates, there are a few tricks that can decrease dark traffic with a bit of time and dedication. What you can do 1) Create your own lists Email is still the main way people share information with their friends and loved ones. It also has been shown to mean more and result in better actions than likes. Step one on a social media plan should be to build email lists. 2) Try disabling the copy and paste functions on your site The key word here is \"try\": the behaviours may be too ingrained for your users to discard but my bet is that with the right sharing functionality and calls to action you will be able to measure more. 3) Learn from WhatsApp According to Buzzfeed the WhatsApp share button is generating more traffic referrals than Twitter. You can get your own version here. 4) Go mass Individual buttons can be customised and are recognised by consumers, do not ignore the conglomerate share buttons (namely ShareThis and AddThis). Both have a wealth of information under their belts and enable a user to decide what to share and where. 5) Utilise tools like Tynt to create strategies around existing sharing habits Tynt, and other tools like it, enable you to see the words that users copy and paste from your site and also provide backlinks that work well for SEO. 6) Attribution is possible Many brands do not use Google analytics, which prevents them measuring and attributing success. If your social team does not have a clear understanding of the path to conversion (and how it is changing) start there and get them hooked. 7) Use tools like Google+ Ripples Look at who is sharing your content, when and what effect it has. This tool is underused. 8) Look for the long URLs We often go for brevity when using social media, so seeing a long URL in analytics should flag up dark social as this is more likely to have been shared via copy and paste. Dig into this and find out where, when, what device etc. Paul Armstrong runs HERE/FORTH. You can follow Paul on Twitter @paul__armstrong To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled 'Advertisement feature'. Find out more here.",
  "title": "Brands only measure the tip of the social media iceberg",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": "Sharing happens mainly off major social platforms, so brands must find ways to measure \"dark social\"",
  "id": "media-network/media-network-blog/2014/jul/03/brands-measure-dark-social-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}