{
  "content": "If, like me, you were taken on protests as a child, you may share a vague sense that all those marches and demonstrations, pickets and rallies are a bit past their heyday. I still own a badge saying Aldermaston Easter 1967 that must have been pinned on my top when I was less than three months old. It's looking pretty rusty now. When I began to organise a campaign with others 18 months ago we didn't put demonstrations high up on our to do list. The campaign is against the imprisonment of women in Yarl's Wood, the detention centre where around 2,000 women who have sought asylum are locked up each year. It seems to be gaining traction in lots of places, expected and unexpected. As the interest grows, we spend a lot of time on the computer. A lot of time. Because if you're not chattering away on Twitter and Facebook, if your online petition isn't growing, then you aren't really campaigning, are you? And how satisfying it is to work through those channels \u2013 they provide such a constant buzz for people who are trying to get a message out; every day you have more retweets, more likes, more signatures on the petition; your supporters send you smiley faces and spread your words through the ether. When the online petition broke through 100,000 signatures it felt like a real milestone. But there can be something weightless about online conversations and breakthroughs. There is always the next thing to do; if you haven't tweeted for a day, where are you? As soon as you get more than 100,000 signatures, the target moves up to 150,000. And when you emerge into the world offline the achievement can feel elusive. If your supporters are elsewhere, behind their computers, it's hard to know how much the campaign means to them. Over the months, it struck me how often people were asking about organising a protest at Yarl's Wood itself. We work with women who have come to the UK from all over the world. Many of them bring other ways of campaigning with them. While some embrace the digital conversations, others are more at ease in a face-to-face environment of debate, song and argument. What's more, many of them were locked up in detention themselves. They often tell me they are surprised by how invisible the detention centres are in the UK, how the experience that defined their arrival is so hidden from many British people they meet. For them, the return to the detention centre \u2013 to shine a light rather than be locked away \u2013 seemed essential. And the wider response to the plan for a demonstration surprised me. This response seemed to grow massively after the election, when I started to see other planned demonstrations \u2013 particularly against austerity \u2013 also gathering interest. You can see the possibility that the parliamentary failure of the left might lead not to stasis, but to a surge of energy elsewhere, on the streets, at the grassroots, as people look for other ways to channel their energy. As people began to arrive at the Yarl's Wood demonstration on Saturday in coach-loads from all over the country, bringing their tambourines and banners, singing their songs, I realised what I should have seen before, that nothing has really replaced that desire to get out together. People still want to get on to the bus or train, into the street or the square or \u2013 in our case \u2013 right up to the detention centre. There's something viscerally energising about feeling those bodies bunched together, and realising that you have all put something else aside \u2013 the family and work and play commitments that are so much more pressing most of the time \u2013 to join up in a call for change. And don't we see the same physical hunger throughout our lives at the moment? While we hunch over our laptops and smartphones, we also crave live events \u2013 festivals where you can feel the warmth of other bodies dancing, readings where you hear the person whose imagination enchants you giving voice to her words, live debates where you see people having to defend their own positions. This is the colour, the heft, the pulse, that our online lives lack. That's why festivals and debates get more and more popular. And so it is with campaigning. An online petition is a brilliant way to spread the word and sense the breadth of support for a campaign. But if you want to dig deep as well as spread wide, you have to find other ways to build solidarity. That solidarity isn't always straightforward. There are always going to be things that divide us. At this protest a Conservative MP spoke alongside those who believe in no borders, actors spoke alongside refugee women still waiting for their papers. The divisions are real, and challenging, but if we can build links our cause feels all the stronger. Seeing up to 1,000 protesters, led by women and people from different ethnic backgrounds, come together to draw attention to a scandal that the government would like to keep hidden is heartening. The moment when demonstrators sang and shouted to the women locked up, and heard them shout back, was unforgettable. If nothing else, a demonstration can create that surge of empathy and imagination which can break down divisions. A demonstration may not be the end of anything, but it can still feel like a new beginning.",
  "title": "To create a buzz, go online. To create real\u00a0change, go out and protest | Natasha Walter",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/immigration",
    "world/world",
    "world/refugees",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Web petitions build support, but actions such as the Yarl's Wood demonstration are viscerally energising",
  "id": "commentisfree/2015/jun/07/yarls-wood-protest-online-petitions",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}