{
  "content": "Say cheese - the paparazzi are back in business. Last week, the Mirror published intrusive pictures of Camilla Parker Bowles. Roy Greenslade asks: is the press going back on its promise to clean up its act? Jason Fraser is a specialist photographer. Some people might call him a paparazzo. But Jason is a sensitive chap and he doesn't like being designated as a pap. So let's call him what he really is: a sneak photographer. He is, in fact, Britain's foremost celebrity stalker, the man who makes his living and a very good one it is, too by taking pictures of people without their knowledge. He haunts the world's beaches, creeping through bushes, hiding behind windbreaks, sometimes hiring boats, so that he can train his long lens on the famous as they soak up the sun, oblivious to the watching snapper. The results of Jason's latest coup were published by the Mirror last Wednesday: three pages showing Camilla Parker Bowles in a swimsuit on a beach in Mauritius headlined: 'Camilla as you have NEVER seen her.' For this portfolio of grainy, snatched pictures of a 52-year-old woman who thought she was enjoying a private moment on a private holiday, the paper paid Fraser pounds 20,000. Doubtless he will pick up more from foreign syndication, so he is a happy man. The benefit for the paper was an extra sale of about 30,000 copies, a reasonable return on its investment, and evidence that editor Piers Morgan's decision to buy the pictures was justified. Mirror sources indicate that there have been no complaints about the paper's use of the pictures though there were, supposedly, calls from people who thought the paper was 'too kind to Camilla' in its coverage. So Morgan is happy too. But Camilla, according to St James's Palace, was upset when she was told about the Mirror's scoop. That's hardly surprising. No one likes to think they have been watched and photographed by a stranger, and few enjoy the resulting unposed pictures. The Mirror tried to ease the pain, and deflect any possible criticism, by running deliberately hyperbolic copy: here's Camilla 'showing off a shapely body which could easily belong to a woman half her age'. This disingenuous fluff was calculated to excuse the intrusive nature of the exercise. Hang on, says the Mirror, this wasn't intrusion and certainly no breach of the editors' code of practice. Clause 3 (ii) states: 'The use of long-lens photography to take pictures of people in private places without their consent is unacceptable.' But this was a public beach. There were plenty of other people around. Even that isn't conclusive because there is an important addition to that clause: 'Private places are public or private property where there is a reasonable expectation of privacy.' If Camilla wished to push it, she could make out a case based on her 'reasonable expectation'. I doubt that she will. Like so many of Fraser's other victims in the past couple of years stretching back to his infamous shots of Princess Diana and Dodi Fayed together on a boat days before they died she is likely to want to put the embarrassing episode behind her. Gradually, as the months pass, the press is conveniently forgetting the pledges it made after Diana's death. Remember the promises not to use paparazzi shots by the Mirror and the Daily Mail? Remember the hue and cry against the tabloids' use of sneak shots led by Daily Telegraph editor Charles Moore? Yet the Mirror, Mail and Telegraph are all routinely using paparazzi pictures again. (A dozen or so were published by the Daily Telegraph during its recent serialisation of the book by bodyguard Trevor Rees-Jones). Fraser's income therefore seems assured for a long time to come. None of his victims has ever gone to the Press Complaints Commission, and papers are not merely happy to use his pictures: picture desks do all they can to please him. Though both Sun editor David Yelland and Daily Mail editor Paul Dacre turned down the Camilla pictures, judging that they might suffer from a negative reaction in 'the court of public opinion', their picture desk executives were far from pleased. The Sun's team were not only amazed but alarmed. One said: 'You have to admire Morgan's bottle' and wondered whether, by rejecting the pictures, they would jeopardise their relationship with Fraser. It's not as if the paper is against his sneaky form of picture-taking. On February 29, it showed Gwyneth Paltrow sunbathing. On February 2, it published Fraser's topless pictures of Star Wars actress Natalie Portman. Both the Sun and the Daily Mail ran his holiday shots of Rory Bremner, Tiggy Legge-Bourke and Claudia Schiffer. All of these people may have expected privacy at the time, but neither the papers nor Fraser were troubled by that little matter. Celebrities are considered 'fair game'. Does Camilla come into the same league? Well, there is the argument that she is the mistress of the heir to the throne and the fact that the couple do not yet feel able to take a holiday together with his children (the princes are skiing in Klosters) is interesting enough to be brought to public attention. More pertinently, executives at the Mirror point to a St James's Palace spin -doctoring initiative which, they maintain, is aimed at presenting Camilla in a positive light. They claim that they, along with one or two other papers, often receive calls informing them that if a photographer were to be in a certain place at a certain time, they might be able to take a picture of Camilla attending, say, an opera or a private party linked to a charity. Therefore, it is argued, an orchestrated campaign to win the public to Camilla through manipulating the press entitles papers to take unsanctioned shots of her. In the words of one unrepentant Mirror journalist: 'If you dance with the devil, you will be pricked by his horns.' If this is true and a St James's Palace spokesman has described it as a 'monstrous lie' then it shows just why intrusion is such a grey area. But does it justify the activities of Jason Fraser? With the greatest of respect to other photographers, he is unlike most of his breed: middle-class, articulate, bilingual, well connected and, according to one of his detractors, rather sophisticated. When he discovered that Camilla was going to Mauritius (under a false name), he booked a first-class seat just behind hers. She, of course, was unaware that the personable 33-year-old on the British Airways flight was Diana's former photographic tormentor and soon to be hers. Fraser will not reveal his source, of course, but vehemently denies that it came from someone in BA, though it is strange how well informed he is about the movements of celebrities around the world. In Mauritius, Camilla was disturbed one afternoon by a helicopter hovering for 10 minutes above her hotel villa. Fraser says: 'I categorically deny that I was in a helicopter.' But I couldn't help recalling what he told a Daily Telegraph journalist in August 1997, when boasting of his prowess after his Diana-Dodi scoop: 'I do get a buzz out of hanging out of helicopters.' The Camilla pictures were certainly taken at ground or sea level, and Fraser defends taking them on the grounds that her friendship with Prince Charles has 'pushed her into the limelight'. He also thought the pictures showed her in 'a positive light'. This is one of his favourite responses when attacked about the surreptitious nature of his work. He once wrote: 'It is possible to take candid photographs of famous people in public and remain within the bounds of good taste, humour and decency.' He has also talked of having a self-imposed moral code. 'I would never do to anybody what I wouldn't want done to myself. By that I mean I don't do people who are in mourning or grieving; I wouldn't dream of photographing someone in hospital; I don't trespass on private property and I don't photograph on to private property.' Even more high-mindedly, he claims: 'Although I get paid a lot for the work I do, I don't do it for the money: I do it for the precious moments every year when the adrenalin rush is massive.' He also stresses that his pictures are harmless. 'Look, I'm not murdering people. I'm just taking pictures of people in as flattering a light as possible.' Maybe he is fooling himself. But unless anyone complains about Fraser and the papers which are eager to pay for his services, he will go on taking his pictures.",
  "title": "Roy Greenslade on Jason Fraser",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Say cheese, the paparazzi are back in business. Last week, the Mirror published intrusive pictures of Camilla Parker Bowles. Roy Greenslade asks: is the press going back on its promise to clean up its act? \n",
  "id": "media/2001/mar/20/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}