{
  "content": "As Sir Christopher Rose publishes his prompt report on the use of listening devices to record the conversations of Sadiq Khan MP, it might be instructive for us to play a game. Can you guess who is responsible for issuing a warrant: for (a) searching your home, (b) planting \"bugs\" in your bedroom and (c) tapping your phone calls and emails? If you've guessed correctly that each of these is governed by different individuals with different sets of rules, well done. You are in the minority of people who understand the complicated and illogical privacy laws in the UK. Britain desperately needs a complete overhaul of our privacy protections, with one set of rules and warrants signed by judges rather than policemen or politicians. The exposure of Mr Kahn's bugged conversations has rightly generated concern about the Wilson doctrine, a promise made to MPs 40 years ago that their confidences would not be interfered with lightly. To many MPs, the spirit of this promise applied to listening devices and other spying techniques, not just phone tapping which was surely cutting-edge technology at that time. But how can the government possibly maintain this when such a motley crew has the power to authorise snooping? If the home secretary, senior police officers and magistrates can sign off on various forms of surveillance, there is little chance of accountability and cohesive oversight. Sir Christopher's findings lead us to the fundamental problem with surveillance legislation - how can our privacy rights be protected when new legislation is cobbled together in response to the latest technology? With so many recent data-loss gaffes by government department after government department, the public can no longer be mollified by the \"nothing to hide, nothing to fear\" argument. New legislation which respects privacy, proportionality and includes a presumption against listening to lawyers and MPs unless they are criminal suspects is needed. Better privacy laws will be good for trust in government, law enforcement and make us a freer country.",
  "title": "Who's listening?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "world/surveillance",
    "uk/shami-chakrabarti"
  ],
  "lead": "Shami Chakrabarti: How can our privacy rights be protected when new legislation on surveillance is constantly cobbled together?",
  "id": "commentisfree/2008/feb/21/whoslistening",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}