{
  "content": "Condemnation of the News of the World has been so loud and universal in the past 24 hours that it is clearly time to come to the tabloids' defence. They're not all bad all the time, not even the NoW. They also do good. I know because in working at the press gallery in Westminster every day I am working among such colleagues. I like and respect many of them. Their collective wisdom on practical matters is always valuable, occasionally even more so than the insights available back at Guardian HQ. Hard to believe, I know, but that's my experience over many years, even though I am listening to a hapless Murdoch spokesman on the radio as I type. The poor man is doing his best with a thin brief, but not doing very well. Would you want to let these people buy a major TV network \u2013 say BskyB? No, not really and this is now a serious test for the government, which should put the BskyB deal on hold until this is sorted out. As Wednesday's Guardian editorial says , it's governance issue. The criminal activity of phone hacking is now only part of it. Conspiracy to pervert the course of justice is in the frame. \"People will go to jail for this\", tabloid veterans (once scornful of the Guardian's \"obsession\") now confide. But the tabloids serve a useful purpose in exposing wrongdoing, sometimes in ways that hapless and high-minded broadsheets, let alone lofty broadcasters, wouldn't know how to start. I realise it's annoying, but it's true. Would the Financial Times, an admirable newspaper in so many ways, have been able to expose bookmaker-inspired corruption inside the Pakistani cricket team, as the Screws did? No, I don't think so. Do they behave disgracefully? Yes, although it's hardly a secret and it is hypocritical for all sorts of people to pretend that the treatment of Milly Dowler's family has knocked the scales from their eyes. \"We had no idea that sort of thing went on.\" Oh yes you did. And you carried on buying their newspapers and chuckling over the contents. A lot of people, many of them wholly innocent, suffered from such treatment; not just politicians and film stars such as Hugh Grant \u2013 whose robust conduct comes out rather well from this spat \u2013 but ordinary folk such as the Dowlers or the family of Madeleine McCann, who were (unlike most) able to sue all the usual suspects over the disgusting way they were treated. But newspapers were designed for excess \u2013 always have been. That is why they are constantly at loggerheads with politicians, judges and dodgy businessmen who seek to control them. In much of the world media are suppressed by politicians. In the west, businessmen have the best answer: buy them up or start your own paper or TV network. Rich foreigners or tax dodgers own much of the British press. That may be what Arianna Huffington, one of my favourite comic characters, means when she writes of Britain's \"rich and thriving media culture\" on the opening day of the HuffPost's UK operation (it won't change your life). More perceptively, Simon Jenkins, briefly editor of both the Times and Evening Standard in his youth, notes in his Guardian column, the commercial and technological pressures on the press today \u2013 social media and the internet eroding the revenues of newspapers (including this one) and explaining, if not justifying, some of the recent excesses. The tragedy is that marketisation of the media since the 80s \u2013 part of a wider marketisation of the economy \u2013 combined with the new, highly invasive technologies proved too intoxicating a mix for some. It's clear that the News International culture \u2013 certainly at the Sun and the NoW \u2013 allowed some to ignore the law or assume they could break it with no public interest defence to justify their excesses. I have to add here that some of my friends who work \u2013 or have worked \u2013 within the Murdoch empire say they are respectable in public, ruthless behind closed doors. Others report, evidently distressed, that most NoW staff really didn't know what was going on. Accountability is surely the key. If you can say \"we cut corners to expose serious wrongdoing\", a court (or jury) may accept your defence as it will not if it is merely a footballer's status as a \"love rat\". But you have to be accountable. That's why I often say that of the two groups I know best \u2013 politicians and hacks \u2013 the pols are more honest, not because they are more noble but because they are much more accountable, both to voters and \u2013 of course \u2013 the media. So it is good that the Mirror and the Sun are facing contempt of court proceedings for their reporting of the Joanna Yeates murder \u2013 over the abuse of her Bristol landlord \u2013 because the sub judice laws governing suspects has been corroded for years. Well done Dominic Grieve, attorney general, for taking a belated stand. That's what we need: the law to be enforced and regulation of the media to be put on a tougher footing more comparable to the way other industries and professions are regulated. It's pathetic of the Press Complaints Commission (PCC) to moan that it was lied to by the Murdochies. No, it was the PCC which deceived the PCC. Either it's a real regulator or a mere mediator. It's make-your-mind-up time. That goes for police accountability too. The Met has long had a close relationship with the tabloids, especially the investigative heavies of the NoW. Sometimes that can be beneficial to the public as well as to both parties and the coppers who take pay-offs, sometimes via post-career columns in the Murdoch press, sometimes brown envelopes for lower ranks. That must be the prime motive for soft-pedalling on the investigation of the NoW hacking files. But if this row weakens the press rather than merely regulates its excesses, it will be a good day for the rich and powerful (including dodgy press barons) and a bad day for most of us. Just look across the Channel where the French press has long been a doped bloodhound asleep in its kennel. There they have all pretended to be shocked by sexual allegations levied in New York against Dominique Strauss-Khan. The prudish and brutal US legal system and rascality of its prurient media has been attacked when actually it emerges with considerable credit. Now that the court case is apparently crumbling France has fallen back into default mode. Half of the public want DSK to stand for president anyway, despite whatever the nature of his sexual encounter with a chambermaid turns out to be. When a Le Monde colleague explained Jacques (\"five minutes including the shower\") Chirac's predatory habits towards female journalists years ago, I replied: \"Good God, that would never happen here.\" \"Of course not,\" he replied. \"It would be in the newspapers.\" Ponder it before you throw too many bricks.",
  "title": "Phone-hacking scandal: Not even the News of the World is all bad | Michael White",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/politics",
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/press-intrusion"
  ],
  "lead": "Michael White: Do tabloids behave disgracefully? Yes, but they also serve a useful purpose in exposing wrongdoing in ways that broadsheets and broadcasters do not",
  "id": "politics/blog/2011/jul/06/phone-hacking-not-even-news-of-the-world-all-bad",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}