{
  "content": "\"When 77% of the country can access the pictures online, we have a duty to those left out to allow them to take part in the national conversation,\" the Sun opined after printing intimate snaps of a royal in flagrante. Not the Duchess of Cambridge, obviously. No, those snaps are clearly a gross invasion of privacy \"which will have Princess Diana turning in her grave\". No, I'm talking about Prince Harry in Vegas, less than a month ago. Remember? The Sun planted the flag of press freedom firmly between Harry's bare butt cheeks, and the old guard of Fleet Street huddled round to applaud. \"Those who wish to muzzle the world's most vibrant newspapers stuffily declare that a story has 'no public interest', as though it were an unassailable fact,\" the Sun barked. No such equivocation today. The editors of French Closer and Italian Chi mag are cast as callous continental rogues, while \"no justification whatsoever\" were the uncompromising words Richard Desmond, whose sudden aversion to breasts is seemingly so violent he's threatening to shut down the Irish Daily Star entirely. The staff of Television X and Red Hot TV would no doubt be wise to start dusting off their CVs. The tabloid bluster that has accompanied the publication of pictures of the Duchess of Cambridge sunbathing topless in France betrays the skewed logic of an industry suffering an identity crisis. If you accept the fundamental logic of tabloid news values, then Irish Daily Star editor Mike O'Kane defended his decision to print impeccably, saying: \"The duchess would be no different to any other celeb pics we would get in, for example Rihanna or Lady Gaga. She's not the future queen of Ireland \u2026 she's one of the most photographed people in the world, and she decides to partially disrobe on a balcony where it can be seen from a public road.\" Substitute the duchess on a sun lounger for Kate Moss on a yacht and this whole debacle becomes just another piece of peekaboo prurience that the tabloid industry is built on. But not content with being faithful worshippers at the altar of celebrity, our tabloids now want to tell the rest of the world's press when prayer time is over. Most cringe-worthy of all is the colonial throwback casting of themselves as white knights riding to protect the duchess's modesty from foreign invaders (weapon of choice: saturation coverage until everyone's had a guilty peek). The truth is, if Desmond and co considered foreign royals bankable, they'd have weekly side-boob, nipple-slip, oooh-look-she-isn't wearing-any-knickers pullouts on the shelves quicker than you can say Royal Readers' Wives. In this post-Leveson limbo, the tabloids' faux-outrage is just another move on the chessboard. The Sun's Prince Harry gamble hit a bum note with the public, so they've about-turned. It's probably dawned on Desmond that he needs to do something to offset his car-crash Leveson appearance (and give his business assets an autumn trim while he's at it). Meanwhile, everyone else is keen to show just how grown up and responsible they now are. No need for statute here, guv'nor. If a few European publications are allowing our tabloids to make a rare clamber for the moral high ground, it is another creature from the continent ready to shove them back off again. Because be you prince(ss) or pauper, the Human Rights Act makes no distinction. Sounding-off about a few long-lens pics being a gross breach of our dear duchess's right to privacy may seem like easy point scoring now, but what about next time Kate Moss goes on holiday, or Angelina Jolie goes to the beach, or Suri Cruise does, well, anything?",
  "title": "Outrage over topless Kate photos shows Fleet Street's skewed logic",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/duchess-of-cambridge",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/newspapers",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/sun",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/richard-desmond"
  ],
  "lead": "Rich Peppiatt: The Sun blasted two magazines for publishing photos of the Duchess of Cambridge, but Prince Harry seemed fair game",
  "id": "media/2012/sep/17/topless-kate-photos-tabloid-the-sun",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}