{
  "content": "It is inevitable that at this stage in my PhD - the dreaded writing-up phase - I can see the blasted thing everywhere. I can't eat, sleep or play without some tenuous and convoluted association with social networks, social psychology and online community interrupting the few moments I'm trying to clear my head of it. This ranges from creating mini-networks out of peas and spaghetti on my dinner plate to dreaming of correlations in my sleep. The worst is when it creeps into my fun time and turns every game I play into an exercise in theory. Take, for example, the multi-award-winning World of Goo. On the surface, it's a fun little puzzler. The aim is to create a structure out of creatures with different properties: green nodes can be reused many times, so you pluck them from one part of the network and use them to branch off in another direction. Red nodes burn, so if you want to spread fire from one end of the network to the other, you've got to generate a path made up of only red guys. Everyone is linked, and how they connect to one another means progression or destruction. But boiling under the feats of engineering and the gravity-defying structures are the loathsome nodes and relationships I'm painstakingly piecing together in my empirical analyses. Or, what about the Flash freeware game The Space Game. I was recently turned on to this real-time strategy by a friend who thought I'd like it because of the clever way in which the system distributes assets: there are hubs and there are links. You've got to manage them. Obviously, given my currently limited library of discussion topics, this is exactly up my street. You play against a fearsome influx while maintaining your resources, building them up and distributing them around your mighty army. Hubs that aren't as well integrated into the system as others die out, and if you want something pronto, it's best if the node that's creating it has a direct line to the target. It's an excellent game as a plaything and as a tool to reinforce everything you ever needed to know about how to create optimum networks. You can also see the best pathways of diffusion, as assets pulse electrically around the system. And that is exactly what I'm looking at in my Study 3. So this week I have officially relinquished my membership of the \"I should be doing my thesis, but am on Facebook instead\" group and have instead signed up as a card-carrying member of Space Game Devotees. It's kind of like learning. At least that's what I tell myself. There are countless other examples, but I don't want to ruin your fun. Go: play unfettered. But remember, as you enjoy yourself, that your games are so much deeper than you ever imagined.",
  "title": "Help - my thesis is due and I can't stop playing",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/games",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "It's kind of like learning. At least that's what I tell myself, says Aleks Krotoski",
  "id": "technology/2009/apr/16/game-theory-aleks-krotoski",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}