{
  "content": "Sunny Hundal: Tweeting is no different to writing an opinion piece Occasionally I get a call from Sky News asking if I would like to tweet about the Murnaghan show on Sunday mornings. Here's how it works: I watch the show for two hours, I live-tweet in response, and get paid for it. Usually it's just straight news: \"William Hague says he would rather eat a live monkey than call for an EU referendum\" etc. Sometimes, I'll throw in a biting comment: \"Nadine Dorries claims she's lovely but here are 10 reasons why she's a spawn of the devil\", etc. I'm presuming Sky's aim is to give the Murnaghan show a higher profile within Westminster, as it competes directly against the Andrew Marr show. But is it unethical that Sky is paying bloggers to tweet about their programmes? I don't see how it is. Does it compromise journalistic integrity to get paid for opinion like this? That would be an odd accusation, since almost all commentary in the national media is paid for somehow. In fact, television or radio can be worse in distorting opinion: TV producers usually invite two guests willing to take strong sides on an issue, and those discussions almost always push people into defending extreme positions rather than having a nuanced debate. Tweeting is no different to writing an opinion piece on a topic. Tweets may be shorter, but at least you have all the space you need to explain your opinion and justify your thoughts. Merely getting paid for opinion itself does not mean it gets distorted, unless you're foolish enough to change your opinion to suit an outlet. Another accusation may be that getting paid to tweet encourages self-censorship. But this is also ludicrous \u2013 I have criticised the BBC and Sky many times, and so far they haven't black-balled me (this may be an oversight on their part). I have even pointed out mistakes to the Guardian, and they keep calling me back (no, I don't know why either). Moreover, tweeting critically about Murnaghan's guests encourages more people to retweet, which in turn creates more buzz around the show \u2013 which is Sky's aim. And finally, should such tweets be regarded as adverts? That doesn't make sense either: many people live-tweet about events, shows or news programmes. I'm not asked to write anything specific nor asked to plug anything; I just tweet bits I find interesting. They don't tell me what I can or cannot say. Of course I am plugging the show, but I do that every time I mention something I've seen on BBC or Sky News more broadly. I'm sure my Twitter followers are intelligent enough to judge the content on its own merit. \u2022 Sunny Hundal is editor of the leftwing blog Liberal Conspiracy and other online magazines Helen Lewis: It's advertising under the cloak of objectivity Being paid to tweet along to a TV programme is hardly an unforgivable journalistic sin, like plagiarism or writing a Glastonbury diary. But it still makes me a little queasy. At first, I couldn't see the problem, but then I thought: how would I respond if a TV channel wanted to pay me to write about their shows in the magazine I work for? Even if I was free to write whatever I wanted to, as the Murnaghan tweeters say they are, I'd still feel that I was being underhand. Obviously, I don't object to being paid money to comment on things, or I wouldn't be here. But this is a question about the space in which that happens, and how it's labelled. If the Sky commentary was shown on a live chat box on the Sky News homepage, that would be fine. And if the bloggers' words were just going straight on to a feed along the bottom of the screen, in the manner of those late-night video-channel shout-outs, I wouldn't object (well, only aesthetically). It would be obvious that they were providing a service to Sky and its viewers. But in using their personal Twitter feeds, they're effectively advertising the programme under the cloak of objectivity. Ultimately, this is a question about what people expect from Twitter. No one has really established its public/private boundaries: if you tweet during work hours, should it be assumed your company endorses everything you've said? If you gained followers because you have an interesting job, should you hand them over when you leave? The cash-for-tweets row is just the latest manifestation of the fact that we're so inured to advertising that many companies prefer to infiltrate editorial instead. The producers of the Murnaghan show could have bought promoted tweets, but they must know that most users will ignore them. What's the answer? It has to be more transparency. That's why I put my job title on my Twitter profile: so people can take it into account when I post. I also try to limit my plugging to pieces I particularly enjoyed, rather than using my account as an RSS feed for my employer. An easy solution is therefore at hand. There's already a sponsored tweet hashtag \u2013 #spon \u2013 so why not ask the paid tweeters to use some variation of it? That way, they can keep tweeting \u2026 and anyone who objects can hit the mute button.",
  "title": "Is it ethical to pay bloggers to tweet? | Sunny Hundal and Helen Lewis",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/blogging",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/sky-news",
    "media/tvnews",
    "media/bskyb",
    "media/television"
  ],
  "lead": "Head to head: Sunny Hundal and Helen Lewis discuss whether journalists should be paid by TV companies for tweeting about programmes",
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/jul/24/ethical-pay-bloggers-tweet",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}