{
  "content": "Like 60% of C-suite executives, I turn to newsletters first for industry analysis and help. The problem is most don't offer either of these things. After doing some lengthy research into good newsletters to subscribe to that would save me time when setting up my own business, I decided that the majority of what was available simply regurgitated websites, contained little original content and provided no value to the reader beyond not typing in a URL (although I totally recognise that sometimes this is enough). I saw this as an opportunity and decided to kill two birds with one stone and create a newsletter instead. C_NCENTRATE has just celebrated its first birthday and now hits more than 11,000 subscribers' inboxes. Those 11,000 didn't come easily.  I am luckier than most in that I have amassed a fair few followers on a (frankly) ridiculous amount of platforms that I (and there's no sugar-coating it) have zero control over beyond adding content into them.  This is a problem because when posting you have little to no idea who is seeing what, whether it's the same few and a host of other major flaws with the current state of social analytics. Yet millions of marketers do so and increasingly pay a fair whack to be seen; what happens if you don't have (or want) to spend money on these platforms? Despite the modest numbers I have to play with, social media accounts for less than a fifth of the sign-ups for C_NCENTRATE over the past year.  Now 20% is nothing to be sniffed at but when you think about the content and whom I target, this number starts to feel low.  The truth is the majority of the sharing came from our friend dark social.  It was me asking friends to email three of their friends after they signed up; me speaking at conferences; email signatures; and pure word of mouth among colleagues. The social platforms both consumers and brands are addicted to are businesses.  Facebook, Twitter, Google+ (and others) are all out to make money and keep you paying (if you aren't paying, you're the product). This doesn't mean they're evil, wrong or a waste of time, but arming yourself with the right tools and strategy for the future is always a smart move. The issue is that this is highly unlikely to change and we are creating armies that are partly blind, do not follow us to new places or are difficult to command so you should start thinking seriously about your future \"army\" now. I mean army too. Community often feels relaxed and laissez-faire; I want people to understand the cause and fight for it. Setting up the newsletter has been an invaluable project for a number of reasons. Not only have I utilised learnings for clients, I now have a unique research panel, an invite list for future events, a new product focus group, an international advisory board and a way of directly selling without having my reach limited. If you aren't utilising newsletters and lists you should be. Not only are they trusted but they can often take you beyond the inbox very quickly.  There are five things that stick out from my first year that I think brands can use on social platforms and newsletters:   1. Analytics only get you so far While I will bestow the virtues of click rates and a/b testing on anyone who wants to listen, understanding the person behind the click is most important. What are his or her fears, issues and concerns? How can I help him or her be better? 2. Active communities trump large ones every time Think about the communities you have created on platforms such as Google+ and Facebook. Are they really communities or are they just glorified noticeboards? I find time and again that too many brands do not think about what a true community is (and should be) long enough for sustained business success. 3. Curation is a powerful tool that many brands still ignore Whether it's because they fear losing people from sites (or never getting them there),  I still see a lot of pages, newsletter and blogs simply talk about themselves. Original content is one thing but having a clear position and including others is much more well rounded.  If @brainpicker simply blurted out comments or statistics people would quickly unfollow the account, but the level of curation and analysis by Maria Popova ensures people return. 4. Give more than you get While it's counterintuitive and certainly not what I started out to do, providing insight to people that is unique to subscribers is a key part of C_NCENTRATE. While the links section is well read (and has a significant amount of content by HERE/FORTH plugged in) it is the actionable insight and clear \"be better\" and \"do this, don't do this\" frameworks that subscribers say they like. A member of the subscriber base gave me the idea for the new product 15-minute executive based on the top section of the newsletter. 5. Go beyond the screen as much as you can I have called, met up for coffee and rewarded regular readers and people who have sent feedback to help C_NCENTRATE improve. This has led to other ideas, new business and countless other opportunities I would have been unlikely to see had I not created the newsletter. As each of the networks tighten its grip around marketers with less and less free organic reach, it's only natural we look for other ways to reduce reliance on paid networks when time, resources and budgets remain tight. Newsletters and bespoke external options are often scoffed at for expense and set-up time, but I believe that with a little strategy they are a truly untapped resource for most brands. Paul Armstrong runs HERE/FORTH. You can follow Paul on Twitter @paul__armstrong To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled 'Advertisement feature'. Find out more here.",
  "title": "Building a Facebook community will never trump a newsletter you own",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/google-plus"
  ],
  "lead": "Newsletters are a  way  to create your own  research panel,  invite list for future events,  focus group and international advisory board. Paul Armstrong shares his top five learnings",
  "id": "media-network/media-network-blog/2014/aug/05/newsletter-brands-building-facebook-community",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}