{
  "content": "Victims of the first TalkTalk security breach last November are still fighting for compensation after losing thousands of pounds \u2013 and they say they are appalled that hackers have again been able to steal customer details from the telecoms giant. Graeme Smith lost \u00a32,815 after being rung by fraudsters pretending to be TalkTalk staff. Dave Westwood suffered the same fate, losing \u00a33,900. Last week a retired teacher, who declined to be named, said she was targeted by hackers and lost \u00a32,800 made as a Swift payment converted to Hong Kong dollars. In each case TalkTalk has refused to accept responsibility or offer compensation. \"There are a group of victims who have all lost thousands of pounds who feel very let down: by TalkTalk, the banks and the other institutions,\" says Smith, who lives in County Durham. \"The way TalkTalk has behaved in the past has been disgraceful. They have refused to deal with us or to accept any responsibility. Now it has happened again they are painting themselves as victims. They have a legal responsibility to look after their customers' data but have repeatedly failed. To me, this is a scandal that keeps coming back.\" Westwood, from Llanelli in Wales, told us he was astonished that TalkTalk had fallen victim to hackers again, and said he hoped the latest attack would force the authorities to take action against the firm. Over the past year, around a dozen people are thought to have lost sums of up to \u00a35,000 after receiving calls where they were convinced they were talking to TalkTalk staff. In each case the callers were able quote the victims' TalkTalk account numbers and other personal data stolen from the firm or one of its sub-contractors. Having gained their trust and taken over their computers the fraudsters were able to use a highly sophisticated scam to take payments out of their bank accounts. But this week it emerged that help could be at hand from a potential class action against the telecoms company. Legal firm Leigh Day said this week that the TalkTalk victims may well have a case and that it is happy to discuss it with them. TalkTalk has admitted that thousands of its customers have been called up by the scammers since last November's theft \u2013 the first of three possible data breaches in under a year. However, it has repeatedly rejected all claims for compensation on the basis that no financial information, such as bank account numbers, was stolen from TalkTalk by the hackers. The Information Commissioner's Office has been investigating the November breach at TalkTalk but, to the great frustration of victims who have questioned whether the ICO has sufficient resources, it has yet to publish its findings. It said this week its investigations are \"ongoing\". So how does the fraud work? It appears that the crooks, who according to the victims had foreign accents, call households posing as TalkTalk staff, warning individuals that their computer has been infected with a virus, and that they will lose their internet service unless they take action. The scammers then gain access to the individual's home computer and remotely take it over, and are able to bypass online banking security. When the fraud victims realise their accounts have been emptied, they then call their bank. But the banks have generally refused to restore the money, arguing that the individuals must have handed over their security passcodes to the scammers. However after our intervention, the teacher who last week lost \u00a32,800 has had the money refunded by her bank, Nationwide. Santander refused to refund both Smith and Westwood, a stance that has been supported by the Financial Ombudsman Service. A crucial point made by victims is that they were not warned to look out for the fraud. Following the November 2014 breach, TalkTalk says it sent out warning emails. But it is possible that in some case the warnings were either automatically deleted as spam or were sent to old email addresses. The company did not write to customers, or initially publicise the matter as it has with this week's hack. Sean Humber, a solicitor at Leigh Day specialising in information law, said: \"Those affected well may have claims for breach of their confidence by arguing that the losses suffered were caused by the initial unauthorised disclosure of their confidential information by TalkTalk or its contractors. \"They may also have claims under the Data Protection Act for the failure to store their information safely. Any claims would be further strengthened if it turns out that TalkTalk was well aware of what was going but, for whatever reason, failed to warn its customers.\" A TalkTalk spokeswoman told the Guardian that while it was very sympathetic to the fraud victims, it would not be refunding them on the grounds that neither bank details nor the ability to access bank accounts were obtained through TalkTalk. Meanwhile, Smith says he will try to rally the group of victims to contact Leigh Day. Other victims can email miles.brignall@guardian.co.uk and we will pass them on to Smith. Your questions answered I'm a TalkTalk customer, how can I protect myself? Keep a very close eye on your bank account. The company says customer card numbers on its systems were not held in a format that could be used by fraudsters, but there is no harm in checking. TalkTalk customers can sign up to credit agency Noddle and set up an alert service that will warn you if someone applies for credit using your details. The \u00a320 cost is being met by TalkTalk. Detail are on the TalkTalk website. If you use the same TalkTalk password on any other online accounts, change them immediately. If you receive any calls from people telling you they are calling from TalkTalk or your bank, don't give them the time of day. Most scam calls start with the claim that you computer is infected or that your internet access is at risk \u2013 or something similar. Don't assume it won't happen to you as the fraudsters can be very convincing. Note, it is possible that former customers might have had their details hacked as well and they should take similar precautions. I'm a fed up with TalkTalk \u2013 can I leave mid-contract? No. Fearing a mass exodus of its four million customers following the latest hacking episode, the company has taken a tough line and has decided that only customers who can show that money was stolen from their bank account \"as a direct result of the cyber-attack\" will be able to leave penalty free. If that happens, the company has said that as a gesture of goodwill, on a case by case basis, it will waive termination fees. If you are not tied into a contract, you can, of course, leave at any time without incurring any penalties. What are the regulators saying about this? All eyes are in the Information Commissioner's Office which will eventually rule on whether TalkTalk has breached the Data Protection Act and what remedies, if any, the telecoms company must put in place. The telecoms regulator Ofcom says it is awaiting the ICO's view and \"until all of the facts have been established it is too early to say whether TalkTalk customers will be allowed to terminate their contract\". The ICO has the power to fine the company up to \u00a3500,000 \u2013 but this is a tiny fraction of TalkTalk's \u00a31.8bn turnover. MPs are investigating the data leak and could demand that the maximum fines are increased. Miles Brignall",
  "title": "Previous TalkTalk victims still awaiting compensation a year on",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "money/consumer-affairs",
    "business/talk-talk-telecom",
    "business/telecoms",
    "business/business",
    "money/money",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Miles Brignall talks to the people who lost thousands of pounds in an earlier data breach. They are furious that the telecoms company says it's not to blame",
  "id": "money/2015/oct/31/previous-talk-talk-victims-awaiting-compensation",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}