{
  "content": "Mark Zuckerberg's former speechwriter has warned that Facebook users should be wary of sharing their personal data with the site, highlighting yet more privacy concerns as the site launches its social search tool graph search. Katherine Losse, who spent five years at Facebook until she left in 2010, told the Guardian that while the NSA revelations have left many social networking users concerned about government access to their personal information, employees at the fledgling social network had access to data including user passwords. This is especially concerning as many Facebook users still use the same password for multiple accounts elsewhere on the internet. \"Users of social networks generally assume that they are the only ones that can access the information they input, and in most cases at most companies that is most likely not true, because at least some of the staff need to have access to user accounts in order to do their jobs,\" she said. \"There has to be a way for the staff to manage and repair user account issues, and for this reason user data within most startups, especially when they are young, is never completely locked up from company staff.\" She added that in light of monitoring undertaken by US intelligence agencies, the idea of private data is certainly no longer true. \"Even if an average staff person can't access it, the information may still be recorded somewhere for the NSA.\" Last year Losse wrote the book The Boy Kings, exploring social technology and its impact on the world. When she joined Facebook as its 51st employee, the site had less than 5 million users, and customer support staff were each handed \"a master password by which we could log in as any Facebook user and access to all their messages and data\". She added that as the social network grew, \"more secure forms of logging in to repair accounts\" were implemented. Losse worked on customer service and later as founder Mark Zuckerberg's personal speechwriter. It is understood that Roose is regarded by Facebook as a rogue former employee. A spokesman stated that Facebook is very highly regulated with regards to user data and in the EU is regulated by the Irish Data Protection Commission. A recent audit into employee access to data concluded that the site has an accurate framework in place to ensure access to data is on a need-to-know basis. Losse caused a small fracas in March when she criticised Facebook chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg's new book in an article for Dissent magazine. \"Lean In bears more in common with a well-funded Silicon Valley startup than a grassroots feminist organisation,\" she said. Losse also claimed that although her managerial duties and workload increased under Sandberg's tenure, she was refused a raise on the grounds that engineers (largely males who often earned at least double her salary) had not recently been given one. Facebook's former PR chief Brandee Barker, who left the company and has helped promote Sandberg's book, responded furiously on Twitter. A private message that Barker sent to Losse on Facebook \u2013 \"There's a special place in hell for you\" \u2013 was made public by the latter, who uploaded a screenshot of the message to both her Facebook and Twitter profile. \"Maybe sending Hellfire and Damnation messages is part of the Lean In PR strategy. LEAN IN OR ELSE YOU'RE GOING TO HELL,\" she added.",
  "title": "Facebook: Mark Zuckerberg's former speechwriter warns of password issues",
  "lead": "Katherine Losse claims social network's customer support could access any user's account with a master password. By Siraj Datoo",
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/sheryl-sandberg",
    "technology/mark-zuckerberg"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2013/jul/17/facebook-mark-zuckerberg-password-concerns",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}