{
  "content": "Google has dismissed accusations that it is orchestrating \"an unsavoury and defamatory smear campaign\" in the increasingly ferocious battle with the campaign group Privacy International, which claims the technology giant is trying to discredit its concerns over the controversial Street View tool. In an open letter to Google chief executive Eric Schmidt tonight, Privacy International's director Simon Davies claims that after it had raising a series of privacy concerns in the national press, Google staff began secretly briefing journalists against the group by alleging it is supported by and institutionally biased in favour of Microsoft. Google and Microsoft are bitter rivals. Photograph: PinkMoose/Flickr/Some rights reserved Several journalists have confirmed that Google has been highlighting connections between Microsoft and 80/20 Thinking, a commercial consultancy run by Davies. \"Neither Microsoft nor [Microsoft PR agency] Burson-Marsteller has ever paid money to either Privacy International or 80/20 Thinking, nor has any benefit in kind been given,\" said Davies in the letter to Schmidt. He added that Privacy International had been quick to speak out against Facebook for what it viewed as a negative change to its terms and conditions, despite the fact the firm does pay to support a working group. \"We are quite frankly stunned that a company such as Google would take steps ... to peddle groundless conspiracy theories in an attempt to besmirch a critic. You should be ashamed of your actions. Google is coming across as a desperate company resorting to desperate measures.\" In an unusually frank response, Google said it had not set out to conduct a smear campaign but openly stated its view that the campaigns waged by Privacy International are driven partly by the commercial relationships of its director. \"Simon Davies regularly attacks Google on privacy grounds,\" said Google's spokesman. \"It's no secret that we believe the credibility of his criticisms is undermined by the fact that alongside his work for Privacy International, he acts as a consultant to a number of technology companies who are direct rivals to, and in some cases vocal critics of, Google \u2013 a fact that he rarely seems to disclose in his press releases or comments to the media.\" The row appears to put Privacy International in the firing line between Google and Microsoft \u2013 two of the world's biggest technology firms and bitter rivals. Privacy International has been quick to draw attention to privacy concerns around a succession of Google products, helping to generate a long list of headline-grabbing but often superficial reports in the mainstream press. Meanwhile, arguably more controversial products such as ad filtering system Phorm have appeared to receive little scrutiny from Privacy International. Its recent campaigns have criticised several key Google products including Gmail, the location-based service Latitude, the Doubleclick merger and behavioural advertising, while its scrutiny of Microsoft has, it says, focused on the well-publicised European Commission investigation into Microsoft's uncompetitive business practices. Reports documenting the latter are far less conspicuous on the group's site, however. 80/20 Thinking's advisory group includes Jerry Fishenden, Microsoft UK's lead technology adviser \u2013 but has never included any Google representative. Privacy International submitted a detailed letter of concern to the Information Commissioner's Office on Monday about Street View, which shows street-level photographs of major streets in 25 UK cities. Davies told MediaGuardian that Privacy International has received several hundred complaints about the technology, many stemming from what he claimed were failures in technology supposed to blur faces or number plates to protect the identity of individuals. \"I don't want Google punished and I don't want Street View removed,\" he said. \"We'd be happy if Google just made a commitment to be more transparent and accountable. The current situation is not sustainable. We want them to seek a technological solution or give a guarantee that Google won't put people in this situation again.\" The ICO has said that any concerned members of the public should contact them if they do not receive a satisfactory response from Google, and added that it is in regular negotiations with the firm. It is understood to be extremely unlikely that the ICO will insist that Street View be taken down. Privacy International had a previous run-in with Google in 2007 when Davies wrote a similar letter to Schmidt. He had again claimed that after giving Google a low ranking for its privacy policies the firm's media tactics had involved telling journalists that the group had a conflict of interest with Microsoft.",
  "title": "Google and Privacy International at war over claims of dirty PR tricks and Microsoft bias",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/google",
    "technology/google-street-view",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Google has dismissed accusations that it is orchestrating a 'smear campaign' against a privacy group that has criticised its Street View tool. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "media/pda/2009/mar/25/google-street-view-privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}