{
  "content": "A Scottish News of the World story about a \"Love Borat\", which exposed a man's web liaisons with women from Kazakhstan, was a breach of privacy rules, the press watchdog said today. The article reported that Brian McNicholl had been caught by his long-term partner engaging in \"secret internet sexychat with a string of Kazakhstani beauties\". The accompanying photographs included a webcam image showing the man partially naked. The Press Complaints Commission upheld a complaint from Mr McNicholl of County Derry in Northern Ireland about the story, \"You Love Borat\" published in July. Mr McNicholl complained that the information and photographs came from private emails held on his company's secure server in Kazakhstan, and accused his partner of using a surveillance programme to infiltrate the messages. The News of the World argued the emails were not private because they were sent from the shared family computer using a work email address and argued that the woman's right to freedom of speech and the public interest element outweighed the man's claim to privacy. The newspaper added it had been unable to contact the complainant before publication and he had since rejected offers for an interview or to publish a letter to the editor. The watchdog ruled that publishing extracts from personal emails and revealing photographs without consent would require a very strong public interest justification, which the newspaper failed to demonstrate in this case. A second complaint from Mr McNicholl about inaccuracy was rejected. The News of the World article allegedly confused the names of the women involved, their employment titles and the circumstances in which the pictures were taken, while one specific sexual allegation was untrue, according to the complainant. However, the watchdog said the inaccuracies were not serious enough to breach the code and the newspaper's offer to publish a letter of correction was sufficient. The Scottish Sun fought a previous privacy case earlier this year when Gail Sheridan, wife of Scottish politician Tommy Sheridan, complained about a long-lens photograph of her standing in her back garden. The newspaper won on the grounds that the garden was in public view and Ms Sheridan had not been involved in anything particularly private. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\". \u00b7 This article was amended on Wednesday September 26 2007. The Scottish Sun, not the Scottish News of the World, fought a privacy case against Gail Sheridan, as we stated in the article above. This has been corrected.",
  "title": "PCC rules against Scottish NoW 'Love Borat' story",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pcc",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "A Scottish News of the World story about a 'Love Borat', which exposed a man's web liaisons with Kazakhstani women, has been criticised by the press watchdog. By Caitlin Fitzsimmons",
  "id": "media/2007/sep/25/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}