{
  "content": "US and British intelligence agencies have long coveted the ability to intercept and look through the information held by telecommunications companies, and more recently internet service providers. And while laws are in place on both sides of the Atlantic to give them limited and officially authorised access to this material, Thursday's Guardian story reveals the ambition of the National Security Agency (NSA) to use a secretive legal process to pick up information on a much wider scale. This will worry privacy campaigners, who will doubtless wonder whether the UK's covert intelligence gathering agencies, MI5, MI6, and GCHQ, have ever sought such access in Britain. If they have, neither the agencies nor the companies have ever admitted it \u2013 or would ever want to. Nevertheless, the tools to engineer such a disclosure in the UK seem to exist, under the provisions of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (Ripa). Ripa was introduced to give a framework for the \"lawful interception of communications, access to communications data, surveillance and the use of covert human intelligence sources (undercover agents)\" at a time when laws in this area either did not exist, or had become outdated \u2013 a criticism now laid at Ripa, which has struggled to make sense of an ever-changing technological landscape. The justifications for authorising the interception of material through Ripa included the interests of national security, detecting serious crime and safeguarding economic wellbeing. The act also set up a grading system; basic intercepts required a certain level of clearance, such as a senior Whitehall official or a senior police officer; the most sensitive intercepts would have to be approved by the home secretary. And it is to the home secretary that British intelligence agencies would have to look if they wanted to obtain the phone records of millions of people in the UK, even for a limited period, in the way the White House has managed on behalf of the NSA. Section 12 of Ripa makes clear that telecoms companies must have in place ways to provide law enforcement bodies with immediate access to information that might be required in a crisis. These \"back-door\" entrances are well-established, and the relationships between the agencies and the firms themselves are well-cultivated to ensure the smooth osmosis of material at critical times. Most companies recognise the need to give agencies access to their records in certain circumstances, which means ministers will not have to use the \"big stick\" powers available to them under Ripa to force them to comply. The secretary of state could use civil powers to force an injunction. But there is a caveat here. The minister cannot \"make an order \u2026 unless a draft of the order has been laid before parliament and approved by a resolution of each house\". No such order appears to have been put before parliament, which suggests such sweeping powers have either not been sought, or if they have, the telecoms firms have decided to comply without resisting. These sorts of private arrangements could, theoretically, remain secret. There is another important consideration written into the act. Ripa demands that the secretary of state consider whether a request for an interception is \"proportionate\" \u2013 a test any minister would want to apply to any request from MI5, MI6 or GCHQ. The last annual report of the interception of communications commissioner, who scrutinises the way Ripa is used, praised GCHQ in particular, saying staff conducted themselves with the \"highest levels of integrity and legal compliance\". Ripa was clearly not drafted to allow agencies unfettered access to material, and its limitations are one reason why the Tories have been trying to enhance the surveillance capabilities of UK agencies. They sympathise with the fears of those working in counter-terrorism, where life is getting more difficult, because so much modern communication is not done on the phone \u2013 where protocols have existed for a long time \u2013 but via email and on social networking sites. The intelligence community has been less secure in its relationships with the new breed of service providers, and because most of them are American companies, the British authorities have little leverage over them. Three months ago, a UN report by a special rapporteur set out how much pressure Google comes under to provide information for police forces and government agencies. \"In the three years that Google has been reporting the numbers of requests for communications data it receives, such requests have almost doubled, from 12,539, in the last six months of 2009, to 21,389 in the last six months of 2012.\" It adds: \"Legislation has not kept pace with the changes in technology. In most states, legal standards are either nonexistent or inadequate to deal with the modern communications environment. \"As a result, states are increasingly seeking to justify the use of new technologies within the ambits of old legal frameworks, without recognising the expanded capabilities go far beyond what such frameworks envisaged.\" For the intelligence communities, these are challenging times, requiring enterprising solutions. \"Our world is getting a little darker every day,\" is a common refrain from security officials around Whitehall.",
  "title": "Verizon phone records: could it happen in Britain?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/verizon-communications",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/surveillance",
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "business/telecoms",
    "world/world",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "lead": "Tools to engineer disclosure of phone records seem to exist in Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000",
  "id": "business/2013/jun/06/verizon-phone-records-happen-britain",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}