{
  "content": "In an odd pairing, the social news website site Digg and the Wall Street Journal have partnered to put questions to the US treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner. Writing on the Wall Street Journal's Real Time Economics blog, Phil Izzo said the event would allow readers to ask Geithner about the financial crisis, which \"may turn out to be the defining event of a generation\". Digg users have posted more than 1,000 questions for Geithner here, and below we have compiled a list of the 10 most popular ones, as voted for by Digg users (the list refreshes automatically to show the latest top 10). Two of the top 10 questions at time of writing refer to the former US presidential hopeful Ron Paul's proposal to audit the US central bank. During the 2008 US Republican nomination campaign, Digg was one of the sites where Paul's active and vocal internet supporters promoted their candidate, helping him to rise from obscurity. Paul is an outspoken critic of the Federal Reserve and runaway spending by the US government, and his supporters are still active on Digg. Other questions focus on the close ties of the Wall Street investment bank Goldman Sachs and the US treasury. Some of the questioners on Digg have incorrectly stated that Geithner worked for Goldman Sachs. He did not \u2013 although his predecessor, Henry Paulson, was the CEO of Goldman Sachs, and Robert Rubin, who served as treasury secretary under Bill Clinton, also worked there. Voting on the questions ends on Thursday, and the Wall Street Journal deputy managing editor Alan Murray will be presenting the most popular questions to Geithner. Video of the interview will be posted on 25 August. This is the ninth Digg Dialogg. Previous interviewees fielding questions from Digg users include the Google vice-president Marissa Mayer, the actor and California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, the musician Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails, the Republican House of Representatives leader John Boehner, the Democratic speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi, and Sir Richard Branson.",
  "title": "Digg Dialogg questions US treasury secretary",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/timothy-geithner",
    "business/useconomy",
    "us-news/usdomesticpolicy",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "us-news/us-politics",
    "technology/digg"
  ],
  "lead": "Site that tracks popular web content is gathering questions its users want to ask Timothy Geithner",
  "id": "news/blog/2009/aug/19/diggdialogg-timothygeithner-us-economy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}