{
  "content": "This week, Times columnist and professional snark Giles Coren found himself yearning for \"the golden age when we wrote, they read, and that was it\" after a vituperative run-in with a critic on Twitter. But we live in a new golden age now: an age of constant, vicious spats. An age where, with a little application, you can lock yourself into a constant cycle of public unpleasantness. By taking some guidance from celebrity examples, you too can be a part of the great big Twitterfight. Here's how: 1. Go looking for a fight You don't have to @-mention everyone you have a pop at on Twitter. (Putting in the @ reply when saying something rude about someone is the equivalent of jumping up from the table where you're chatting with your friends, running several hundred miles to find the object of your ire, and shouting your displeasure into their face: \"HA. THAT'S YOU TOLD.\") And you don't have to search for mentions of your name just to see what people are saying about you and snipe back if you feel so moved. You don't have to do those things. But without them, it would be very hard for any argument on Twitter to ever get started, so I strongly recommend that you do them both. A lot. After all, if HuffPo journalist Alice Vincent hadn't @-mentioned Coren when she called his column \"one step up from a Mumsnet blogpost\", how else could he have been introduced to the reforming truth of his own self-involved tediousness? 2. Hit hard and hit low You're in full view on a public forum, making Twitter the perfect venue to show everyone your intellectual bravery by using every instrument at your disposal to attack your antagonist. Well, maybe not racism as that's quite frowned on. But misogyny? That is very much on the table. When Coren told Vincent \"go fuck yourself you barren old hag\", this was obviously a thoroughly clever reductio ad absurdum of her temerity in saying she wasn't interested in reading about Coren's own spawn endlessly. Even if it did look a lot like the plain rank sexism of implying that a woman's opinion was worthless if she wasn't pretty, young and fertile. Handily, it also showed that Coren was not, in fact, one step up from a Mumsnet blogpost, but several stages down, and rolling around with the slime in the nappy bin. 3. Monitor constantly This is your most important weapon. Remember, people could be saying anything about you, so it's your job to keep an eye on everyone. Start searching for your own name and being horrified by everything you find. One of my friends mentioned on Twitter that she considered the son of Jenni Murray (not @-mentioned) to be an attractive young man. (\"Would.\") Murray then appeared and quizzed my friend on her intentions. (\"Would what, dear?\") Once my friend had explained the nature of her intentions (\"Erm, rump with him\") Murray declared her \"disgusting\" and retired. A permanent state of vigilance will ultimately ensure that no one, anywhere, is able to hold a non-sanctioned opinion involving you. 4. Never give in Restraint. Thoughtfulness. An ability to stop when the argument is exhausted. All qualities that the dedicated Twitter fighter must strangle inside if they are to succeed. Make Courtney Love your model: the more you can blurt out, the more litigious and the less punctuated it is, the better your form will be. One sign that you've really got your bicker on is the \"repeated goodnight\" tactic, as used by Joey Barton while ranting about Alan Shearer on Match Of The Day. Barton signed off his furious tweets \"goodnight\", \"sleep well\" and \"goodnight\", all within an hour, and so demonstrated that he was definitely very calm, very contained and not hovering over his Blackberry gnarled by a fury that could never be relieved no matter how many times he tried to lance his rage-pus with tweets. 5. Eschew charm The quickest way to put a stop to a critic is to wrongfoot them with charm, and that is why you should never do that. Remember, the aim is to keep your Twitterfight going for as long as possible and with maximum spleen. Take Alain de Botton, a man of some tenderness in the ego area. When I decided to tweet (in slightly graphic terms) that I was not a fan of his work, de Botton spotted it, and then rather than insult me back, made a substantial donation to Mencap by sponsoring me for a marathon I was running. (Message: \"I'm sure you're a nice person deep down.\") Sure, it's the kind of option that's only available if you have a huge wodge of money to spare, but it definitely shut me up and so revealed de Botton's rubbishness at having Twitterfights, making me the winner by default. What do you mean, it sounds like he bested me? Come and say that on Twitter where I can call you a barren old hag.",
  "title": "Five steps to becoming a heavyweight Twitter fighter | Sarah Ditum",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Sarah Ditum: You told us: Learn how to be a master of public pugnacity a la Giles Coren or an expert in online exasperation, just like Joey Barton",
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/may/15/five-steps-heavyweight-twitterfighter-giles-coren",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}