{
  "content": "Trevor Bentham, the partner of the late actor, Sir Nigel Hawthorne, is threatening legal action against the Mail on Sunday over an article that appeared in the paper last week. He denies making several of the comments attributed to him in the feature, which appeared under the headline, \"Nigel changed his will to give me gay rights... at least I won't be evicted from our house.\" Mr Bentham, Sir Nigel's long-term partner, has hired the solicitors Lee and Thompson, who have written to the paper requesting an immediate retraction or apology. The letter asks for \"an immediate retraction, setting out the position and a reflection of the fact that no interview had been given\". It also asks the paper to confirm that, beyond a telephone conversation about the circumstances of Sir Nigel's death, Mr Bentham did not make any of the statements in the interview. The Mail on Sunday approached Mr Bentham seeking an interview following the actor's death. It is believed Mr Bentham's solicitors will claim he decided not to grant the interview. The feature, written by Danae Brook, provided a glimpse into the couple's day-to-day life. It began: \"Trevor Bentham, the writer and long-term partner of the late Sir Nigel Hawthorne, sits alone in the drawing room of their 15th century manor house. As dark falls, he rumples the wiry hair of Seamus, their terrier and apple of Sir Nigel's eye - 'like a son to him,' says Trevor wryly. \"He has taken Seamus for a lonely walk across their fields and fed him in the high-tech shiny kitchen, the only reminder of the previous owner's edgy, modern taste - Sir Nigel bought the house from Chris Lowe of the Pet Shop Boys.\" The double-page spread featured lengthy and often poignant quotes from Mr Bentham and the newspaper is adamant it will fight its corner. Sources at the Mail on Sunday said Brook had spoken on the telephone to Mr Bentham on \"numerous\" occasions and had visited the house he shared with Sir Nigel. Insiders suggested Mr Bentham's publishers were upset about the article because it could spoil a potential serialisation of Straight Face, a biography of Sir Nigel with which Mr Bentham was involved. A spokesman for Lee and Thompson confirmed a letter before action had been sent to the paper. \"Our client's primary concern is to get the record straight,\" he said, declining to give details of Mr Bentham's objections. John Wellington, the managing editor of the Mail on Sunday, said: \"We have had a letter from Mr Bentham's solicitors and we will respond to it.\" He refused to comment on details of the case.",
  "title": "Hawthorne's partner clashes with MoS",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/mailonsunday",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": " Trevor Bentham, the partner of the late Sir Nigel Hawthorne, is threatening the paper with legal action. By Jessica Hodgson",
  "id": "media/2002/jan/25/mailonsunday.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}