{
  "content": "Apple has released an update for the iPhone which it says protects it from the vulnerability, revealed yesterday, that could let hackers take complete control of the phone, including reading its contacts and calendar details. Although there is no formal announcement by the company, an update for the iPhone has appeared on users' computers. The phone can only be protected from the weakness by synchronising it with the owner's computer; unlike other phones, Apple is not allowing network operators to update the phones \"over the air\". However as the update is 230MB in size, that may be seen by owners - and network operators - as a blessing. Two security researchers,Charlie Miller of Independent Security Evaluators, and Collin Mulliner of Fraunhofer SIT demonstrated the hack yesterday by taking over a reporter's iPhone at the Blackhat conference in Las Vegas via a single specially-crafted text message. Miller told BusinessWeek: \"You might go to the Web site for your bank on the iPhone browser and I could theoretically see you enter your user name and password,\" Miller says. \"I could see the data in your applications. I could have complete control of the phone.\" \"The problem here is a systemic one,\" Miller told BusinessWeek. \"It has to do with the fact that phones have to accept text messages and that they always have to process the data that comes with them.\" Apple acknowledges that the pair told it about the weakness in its notes accompanying the details of the update (http://support.apple.com/kb/HT1222), confirming that they reported the issue, though it does not acknowledge how long ago. Miller and Mulliner say that they told Apple about their discovery of a memory flaw in the iPhone's handling of text messages a month ago. The company has not said how long it has known of the flaw, but it is highly unlikely that it was able to work out the details of the flaw in the short time since the flaw was made public. An Apple spokesman said: \"We appreciate the information provided to us about SMS vulnerabilities which affect several mobile phone platforms. This morning, less than 24 hours after a demonstration of this exploit, we've issued a free software update that eliminates the vulnerability from the iPhone. Contrary to what's been reported, no one has been able to take control of the iPhone to gain access to personal information using this exploit.\" It is likely that almost all iPhone owners will have updated their phones within the next week because the phones are so closely tied to their computers for synchronisation of calendars, contacts and music. A similar flaw was found in Google's Android oeprating system for mobile phones, but the company says that it has now been fixed through action by the carriers. Microsoft said that it is working on an update for its Windows Mobile operating system - now renamed Windows Phone - and that it will distribute it once it is ready.",
  "title": "Apple fixes iPhone flaw that could let hackers take it over remotely",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/iphone",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "technology/hacking"
  ],
  "lead": "Apple has released an update for the iPhone which it says protects it from the vulnerability, revealed yesterday, that could let hackers take complete control of the phone, including reading its contacts and calendar details.",
  "id": "technology/2009/jul/31/iphone-text-message-hack-fixed",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}