{
  "content": "It is significant that all of our great religions were born in the face of oppression. Moses led the Israelites from slavery under the Egyptians. Jesus challenged the power of Rome. The Islamic calendar begins with the migration of Muhammad and his followers to escape the persecution of Meccan tribes. Even the awakening of Gautama Buddha came in the midst of unremitting tribalism and warfare. Whatever we feel about religions today, we've often found them preferable to the oppression and violence without them in the past. Alif the Unseen by G Willow Wilson is in part a novel about the need for faith, belief and religion in a technological age. It is also a passionate romance and a delirious urban fantasy. Alif is a hacker who specialises in providing anonymity to clients who might have reason to fear the authorities, from political activists to pornographers. He is \"not an ideologue, as far as he was concerned anyone who could pay for his protection was entitled.\" He conducts his business in the fantasy precincts of The City, a place like but unlike contemporary Cairo, which author G Willow Wilson has made her home. Wilson is widely known as a comics writer (she's the author of the Vertigo-published series Air), and as an essayist and journalist on feminism and Islam, including her own conversion to that religion during her studies at Boston University in the US. Alif the Unseen is her debut, and as with the work of many of the best young writers today, it is both a book written with a love of the fantastic in all its genres and a serious work of fiction. \"Their day will come,\" says Abdullah, a player in the hacker underground resisting the oppressive authorities of The City as he comments on the safety and complacency of their western counterparts. \"They will wake up one morning and realise their civilisation has been pulled out from under them, inch by inch, dollar by dollar, just as ours was. They will know what it is to have been asleep for the most important century of their history.\" It's a sentiment that should send a tremor of recognition through any reader alert to the threats faced by western democracies today. We did nothing as democracy was tugged from under the feet of those in the Middle East and north Africa, arguably because we saw ourselves as the beneficiaries of these crimes. Now that the same forces of global capitalism are turning their attention to our freedoms in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, it may be that we come to remember the 20th century as one we slept through, while we spend the 21st paying for it. Stitched through Alif the Unseen is Wilson's commentary on the need for religion and faith as a counterbalance to oppression. Alif and the other characters in Wilson's novel find strength in the Islamic faith, as have many of those risking their lives against oppression in the Arab spring, and as does the author herself. It's a valuable contrast to the writing of many young authors today who see, with good reason, the religions that claim to represent them as corrupted to the purposes of oppression. The conflicted relationship between young political activists and religious organisations played out theatrically on the steps of St Paul's cathedral in 2011, when the Occupy protest movement camped there after a failed attempt to occupy the London Stock Exchange. That it was the brave decision of the then canon, Giles Fraser, to allow the encampment, even in the face of an outraged church establishment, is a reminder that while we may chose to put aside the structures of an outdated church, we still need good men. Let's remember, if Jesus were alive today he would be an Occupy protester. As a portrait of hacker culture, Alif the Unseen also tackles both the central threat to and hope for democracy in our near future. The technology of the internet, of social media, of ultra-powerful computers placed in the hands of billions worldwide, is the change that has brought a string of oppressive regimes down through the Arab spring. But it is also the technology allowing unprecedented penetration into our private lives by major corporations, and which places incredible power in the hands of giants like Apple and Google. We're trusting a great deal in Google's 'don't be evil' pledge. If the technologies of surveillance and control now surrounding us are turned to oppressive ends, we may all find ourselves with a suddenly renewed need for strength drawn from religious faith.",
  "title": "Alif the Unseen: speculative fiction meets the Arab spring",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "books/g-willow-wilson",
    "books/science-fiction",
    "books/fiction",
    "books/books",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/protest",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Damien Walter: G Willow Wilson's novel about Egyptian hackers is a delirious urban fantasy which puts the unlikely case for religion in an age of empowering but intrusive technology",
  "id": "books/2012/dec/13/alif-the-unseen-g-willow-wilson",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}