{
  "content": "There could be no clearer warning about the database state than the one given last night by Sir Ken Macdonald QC, the outgoing Director of Public Prosecutions. \"We need,\" he said, \"to understand that it is in the nature of state power that decisions taken in the next few months and years about how the state may use these powers, and to what extent, are likely to be irreversible. \"They will be with us forever. And they in turn will be built upon. So we should take very great care to imagine the world we are creating before we build it. We might end up living with something we can't bear.\" His words, which you can read in full here, are vitally important at a time when Jacqui Smith (who, incidentally, is beginning to look like the most authoritarian of all Labour home secretaries \u2013 David Blunkett comes a close second), is demanding ever greater access to our travel, communications and personal data. There is almost no area of our lives to which she and her anonymous officials are not laying claim. The truth is that we have already gone some distance to building this nightmare state. At the moment the Home Office has plans to take 19 pieces of information from each us every time we travel abroad \u2013 including credit card details, mobile phone numbers and itineraries. Nearly 50 pieces of information will be required by the National Identity Register, to say nothing of the constant monitoring of our behaviour entailed in ID verification. All journeys on motorways and through town centres are to be recorded by police number plate recognition cameras: the information will be retained for two years. On top of all this, Smith now plans a vast communications silo at GCHQ, Cheltenham, which will record the details of all phone calls, emails and Internet connections. Last week she called for a national consultation characterised by openness and reason. Sir Ken has kicked off the debate with the strongest possible challenge to her, and it is time for the rest of the political establishment to start imagining the world that is being conceived and built in the darkest corners of the state. Sir Ken, by all accounts a very good DPP, has often found himself at odds with the authoritarian note struck by New Labour. In speeches he has attacked both the notion of the \"war on terror\", and 42 days detention without charge. Last night, he used his valedictory message to remind us that in 2004, when he took office, the prime minister and the then home secretary (David Blunkett) \"suggested publicly, and on the same day, that in serious crime cases the criminal standard of proof should be lowered.\" Sir Ken pointed out that this conflicted with Britain's obligations under the Human Rights Act to provide for fair trials, as well as our common law norms. He said that to have accepted this view would have meant \"sending men and women to prison for many years \u2013 in the face of reasonable doubts about their guilt.\" Unlike Blair and Blunkett, the DPP understood and obeyed the Rule of Law. Now that he asks us to imagine what life in Britain will be like in ten, or 15 years time, we should pay attention and engage the sinister forces of control in our country. It is, as he implies, our last chance.",
  "title": "Henry Porter: Ken Macdonald is right: the database state is almost upon us",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/surveillance"
  ],
  "lead": "Henry Porter: When a pillar of the establishment like Ken Macdonald warns of the consequences of the database state, we should listen",
  "id": "commentisfree/henryporter/2008/oct/21/civilliberties-privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}