{
  "content": "Catherine Zeta Jones was \"childish\" to think she could have a private wedding in the New York Plaza Hotel, the high court heard today. Hello!'s aristocratic fixer, the Marquesa de Varela, told the court the Hollywood stars could not expect to have a private wedding in a hotel. The couple are suing Hello! for publishing six paparazzi shots of the event after they signed a \u00a31m deal with OK! for exclusive rights to the wedding pictures. \"It was childish to think that in the Plaza Hotel you will get 100% exclusive photos\", the marquesa told the court. \"If I wanted a private wedding I would not have done it in the Plaza Hotel. It's a hotel. It's not a private place\" she added. \"There you have 1,000 South American waiters, it's easy, easy, easy,\" said the marquesa, who is from Uruguay. She backed up her argument by pointing to other celebrity weddings that had been held in public places. She said she thought, for instance, that unofficial photos of James Major's marriage to Emma Noble had been taken by a waiter. There was a huge difference between the sneaked shots that appeared in Hello! and the official pictures that appeared in OK!, the marquesa claimed. \"Good pictures are good pictures, you cannot compare Armani to Zara,\" she said in reference to the Italian haute couturier and the mid-market Spanish clothes store, famed for its quickly turned-around interpretations of the latest catwalk fashions. The marquesa also described the reputation of Phil Ramey, the Californian paparazzo who masterminded the operation to take the wedding photos. \"He was known to be the best paparazzo, the most aggressive, the one who would swear most loudly,\" she said. However, the marquesa denied she had ever dealt directly with Mr Ramey or any other paparazzo. She said that was left to other executives on Hello!, including the picture editor, Sue Neal, and the magazine's Spanish owner, Eduardo Sanchez. The marquesa also told the court she was very upset when Ms Zeta Jones and Michael Douglas decided to sell their wedding pictures to OK!. She was particularly aggrieved that Mr Sanchez had refused to let her negotiate with the couple's PR man, Allen Burry. \"I was very upset. I had a very good record of getting stories and suddenly Eduardo took me off the story. I felt very unhappy that OK! got the story because I felt Mr Burry wanted to do it with us in the beginning.\" In her witness statement the marquesa claimed Hello! lost the deal because the couple and Mr Burry felt antagonised by Mr Sanchez. She also claimed she felt under pressure to sign a false witness statement saying the paparazzi pictures were sold to Hello! by her company, Neneta Overseas Ltd. \"My whole income depended on my relationship with Hello! and Eduardo; if I refused to help them then I was sure the relationship would be put in jeopardy and my income would disappear,\" the marquesa said in her witness statement. \"The situation was all the more difficult to me as I support my three children, six grandchildren, an elderly mother and almost 200 dogs as I have built and run a rescue home for animals.\"",
  "title": "'If Zeta Jones wanted private, she shouldn't have held her wedding in a New York hotel'",
  "lead": " 4.15pm: Catherine Zeta Jones was 'childish' to think she could have a private wedding in the New York Plaza Hotel, the high court heard today. By  Ciar Byrne ",
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/feb/12/pressandpublishing.privacy2",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}