{
  "content": "Alan Rusbridger, the editor of the Guardian, today voiced his support for a press ombudsman to act as a court of appeal to the current system of self-regulation by the newspaper and magazine industry. Giving evidence to a parliamentary inquiry into privacy and media intrusion, Rusbridger argued that it was not in the interests of the press for complaints to end up in the courts, bringing about privacy legislation by the back door. He said that a \"further step\" beyond the existing press watchdog, the press complaints commission, would enable people to appeal PCC adjudications without recoursing to the law. \"One of the things the PCC can't always do is to establish matters of fact. Sometimes it would be helpful to the PCC if you could have someone who could deal with matters of fact,\" Rusbridger said. He cited the example of Radio 1 DJ Sara Cox, who appealed to the PCC after the People published pictures of her and her husband naked on their honeymoon. Cox was persuaded by the PCC to accept a printed apology from the tabloid, but was not satisfied and went on to sue the paper. Different parties in the case, including then People editor Neil Wallis, who sits on the PCC, Jason Fraser, the paparazzo who sold the pictures to the tabloid, and Cox, gave different accounts of what had happened - a situation that could have been decided by an ombudsman who dealt with matters of fact. Rusbridger said the PCC had improved the behaviour of the press greatly in the last 10 years. However, he added that the increasing climate of regulation and the introduction into UK law of the Human Rights Act, enshrining the opposing principles of freedom of expression and right of privacy, made it imperative upon the PCC to change and improve. \"It's to the press' benefit that the PCC is seen to be more proactive and tougher,\" he said, adding that the commission's incoming chairman, Sir Christopher Meyer, should be given at least a year to bring about improvements. The issues the PCC needed to consider included the prominence with which newspapers display its adjudications and the way in which its members were appointed, Rusbridger said. Calling for greater transparency in the PCC appointments system, he said: \"I can't see why these jobs shouldn't be advertised and if there was an ombudsman, particularly the ombudsman figure.\" Simon Kelner, the editor of the Independent, also told the culture select committee inquiry that there was an argument for a press ombudsman, which he suggested could report to the new communications super-regulator Ofcom. However, the other Fleet Street editors who have given evidence to the inquiry - including the Daily Mail's Paul Dacre, Rebekah Wade of the Sun, News of the World editor Andy Coulson and the Daily Mirror's Piers Morgan - have all vigorously defended the current system. Rusbridger said all editors feared a privacy law, adding that he was against such a law, but that if there was to be new legislation he would prefer it to be decided by parliament rather than the courts. \"I think freedom of speech is such a fantastic cornerstone of our democracy, if we're going to get any laws that inhibit freedom of speech it's infinitely better that that's done in parliament than on the hoof by judges,\" he said. He said some newspaper editors had a \"bunker mentality\" about preserving the current system.",
  "title": "Rusbridger backs press ombudsman",
  "lead": "3.45pm update: Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger today voiced his support for a press ombudsman to act as a court of appeal to the current system of newspaper self-regulation. By Ciar Byrne",
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/alanrusbridger",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/mar/11/pressandpublishing.privacy1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}