{
  "content": "The thought of graduating and finding a job can be daunting. The idea that our student bubble is going to be popped with the sharp edges of a graduation cap is enough to make us want to hibernate. But making yourself employable might be easier than you think \u2013 if you start thinking about social media as a key tool to help you stand out and get a job. Students currently use social media to text, call, Skype and WhatsApp our friends and family. So it makes sense to make all the thumb clicking worth it. Lynn Finn, head of the employability service at the University of Northampton, says: \"It's essential that students use social media to help their career. \"It's so easy for an employer to check your social media profiles and if they can see you're following their company on Twitter and interacting with professionals, it shows them you're more likely to understand their company's values.\" After I wrote a post about makeup and women's confidence on my blog, I tweeted the link to Bobbi Brown, founder of Bobbi Brown cosmetics. I almost dropped my phone when I saw she had tweeted me back saying \"Great work. Keep spreading the message!\" A few years ago, before the birth of Twitter, I probably would have had to endure a few hours on the phone and the threat of a restraining order to get her to read my article. Using social media in a smart way to really boost your profile. If you're an art student, set up a blog and make your way to local art shows. Then write up reviews and tweet the link to local artists. Maybe they'll share it with their friends and may become a good contact. If you're a business student and entrepreneur set up a blog to track your progress, document your growth and tweet your link to local businessmen. Do everything you can to show the people in your field what you're up to, and that you are ready to engage and learn from them. Rachel Davies, a graduate in graphic design at Nottingham Trent University, says: \"I think having a blog is a great way of showing employers what you can do before you even get to the interview stage. I definitely think my blog helped me get my internship.\" University of Northampton multimedia journalism student Esther Sakala writes reports on local events and posts them on her blog. She says: \"Having a blog gets me used to writing on a regular basis. I know I'll feel more comfortable going into an interview knowing I can showcase my journalistic skills. \"And I think if you're putting your spare time into something, that's going to show an employer you're serious.\" Adding your blog to your CV will demonstrate to a potential employer that you have a genuine passion for the subject you have studied. Once you're blogging, don't forget Twitter. Have an active interest in people in the industry you want to work in. Interact with them, tell them what you thought of their latest project and ask for feedback on yours. But there's a fine balance between being interested and pestering \u2013 make sure to listen too. Hearing about the day to day lives of the people you follow will help you gain a better understanding of what you may be doing one day. And maybe when they tweet about a job, you'll be the first to hear about it. So stop tweeting your lunch and start tweeting your future employers instead. \u2022 Have you used social media to help you get a job? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.",
  "title": "Students: tweet your way to a job",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "education/employability",
    "education/higher-education",
    "education/students",
    "education/education",
    "media/social-media",
    "money/graduates",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/blogging"
  ],
  "lead": "Social media could help you get a job \u2013 if you use it to your advantage",
  "id": "education/mortarboard/2014/apr/02/social-media-students-employability-jobs",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}