{
  "content": "Apparently, the Guardian isn't delivered to people who live under bridges. Well, distribution costs are high these days. This difficulty would explain why last week one particular troll failed to read, or maybe just to grasp, my future Pulitzer prize-winning column about how not to be a dick on the internet. On the same day that it was published in the paper, someone sent a laughably dickish message to me on Twitter that they had placed a bomb outside my house and it would go off at precisely 10.47pm. In the middle of Newsnight? Has this person no heart? Bomb threats are a merciful rarity in my life but this one wasn't wildly unexpected, which partly explains why my reaction was one of irritation rather than fear. Whether or not you engage in social media, you will almost certainly be aware that there is a debate about abusive messages sent to women on Twitter \u2013 because this issue has been covered in the media for the past 10 days with an intensity that borders on hysteria. But we'll get to the hysteria in a bit. First, let's discuss the abuse. Any woman who has ever ventured an opinion on the internet has experienced abuse, sometimes of the \"Piss off back to the kitchen, love\" variety, occasionally of the \"Why so uptight? You need a shag\" flavour, and, from time to time, a good old-fashioned rape threat. This is neither new nor news, nor is it acceptable, and it is to the enormous credit of activist Caroline Criado-Perez and MP Stella Creasy that they have offered themselves up as sacrificial lambs to protest against this and, in doing so, received hundreds of extremely abusive messages themselves. Social change comes from someone standing up and insisting the status quo \u2013 accepted unthinkingly by so many as \"just the way things are\" \u2013 is intolerable, and Criado-Perez and Creasy have shone a light on the weird misogyny, racism, antisemitism, homophobia and all those other unpleasantries that have always flowed unimpeded on the internet. The downside to the fightback is that, in my experience, the abuse has ramped up. I have received plenty of sexist threats in my time, but the bomb tweet was a new one. Near identical messages have since been sent to columnists Grace Dent and India Knight, and historian Mary Beard \u2013 that improbable recipient of so much crude online abuse. But backlashes are inevitable when action is taken, which is why I was not overly fazed by my bomb threat. In fact, I'd describe myself as thoroughly unfazed. Yet because this is a debate involving the media and social media \u2013 two enterprises that are, individually, more self-regarding than a two-way mirror \u2013 this whole palaver is at risk of becoming a self-consuming argument about personalities, which in turn will condemn it to the irrelevant bin of news cycles. The morning after I received the bomb threat, I woke to find 42 \u2013 42! \u2013 emails from news outlets around the world asking me to talk about it. As thrilling as it might have been to cast oneself as the Salman Rushdie of the 21st century after one anonymous tweet, the truth is this is a problem because such hysteria on the part of the media cannot be sustained, and is focusing on the wrong people. This is a big, messy subject that no one knows how to solve as yet. Not the very prompt, very solicitous police who came round to my flat. All four \u2013 yes, four \u2013 of them had the same look of baffled anxiety in their eyes when I mentioned the word \"Twitter\", as I have when teenagers talk to me about Snapchat. (My case has since been passed to the presumably Twittered-up e-crime unit.) It would be impossible for the already overstretched police to send four officers out every time some idiot sends an angry threat online (4chan alone would cause the force to implode). Not Twitter, despite its belated gestures. And not journalists either, and I include myself in that (beyond my suggestion that people should stop being so dickish online). So, as always happens with big, complicated, messy stories, it is reduced in the media to the personalities. By my count, the Telegraph website has run six snide stories about journalist Caitlin Moran, who has been a vocal supporter of Criado-Perez and Creasy, in the past five days. (Proving that satire truly is dead, Samantha Brick has, inevitably, accused Moran and others of being \"jumped-up attention seekers\".) The similarly high-profile journalists who have questioned Creasy and Criado-Perez's ideas have also been rubbished personally. A story needs personalities to lead it, but this one is at risk of being boiled down to a case of couple of prominent media folk who had bad things sent to them on a medium that is heavily used by journalists. And this is a subject that should involve us all. The suicide of Hannah Smith, who suffered hideous online abuse, is a tragic reminder that online abuse is a serious problem and while journalists may be hardened to it and able to make jokes about being blown up in the middle of Newsnight, many others are not. I'm a lot less interested in who receives this abuse than why it is sent at all. Why are there so many people who feel so disenfranchised, who feel so angry, that the only way they can cope is by sending anonymous death threats to strangers? And what can be done to remedy this? These are tough questions that an increasingly online world needs to address, rather than the merits of various media personalities. Such fluff is the journalistic equivalent of fiddling while Rome burns, and is an insult to people like Hannah Smith. But then, fiddling is probably easier than firefighting, right?",
  "title": "Online abuse and bomb threats: let's focus on the problem, not personalities | Hadley Freeman",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/blogging",
    "media/digital-media",
    "society/cyberbullying",
    "lifeandstyle/women",
    "world/gender",
    "world/feminism"
  ],
  "lead": "Hadley Freeman: Twitter trolls are difficult to tackle but the solution involves everyone",
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/aug/06/online-abuse-problem-twitter-troll",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}