{
  "content": "The European Commission is threatening legal action against the UK government for failing to properly safeguard individuals' personal data. The commission has raised questions over the way the Data Protection Act and other legislation have implemented 11 articles of the 34-article European data protection directive - almost one-third of the whole. It has warned that it could take the UK to the European court of justice in Luxembourg if negotiations over the alleged defects fail. The investigation has been going on for more than three years, but the extent of the alleged shortcomings in UK law has been kept secret. Ministers have refused to release details of the negotiations to parliament, but the EC, in response to a freedom of information request, has now revealed the wide range of its concerns. The disclosure comes as a new law, coming into force today, compels phone companies to retain information about all landline and mobile phone calls, and make the data available to more than 700 official organisations, including police, security services, tax authorities, NHS trusts and local councils. The move brings into UK law a European directive, the data retention directive, aimed at \"the investigation, detection and prosecution of serious crime\". It has attracted little notice because it was put into UK law by a statutory instrument, made under the European Communities Act 1972, rather than by a new act of parliament. The government also plans to extend the powers to cover email and internet activity. The information commissioner, Richard Thomas, will monitor the security of the data kept under the new data retention rules. He also plays a major role under the Data Protection Act in making sure individuals' privacy is protected when their personal data is processed and used. But as part of its investigation into UK data protection laws the European Commission accuses the UK of not giving the commissioner strong enough powers. Other concerns include the conditions for processing sensitive personal data, the transmission of data outside the EU, and the extent to which individuals can seek a remedy if their rights are breached. The extent of the commission's investigation has been discovered by Chris Pounder, a consultant at law firm Pinsent Masons and editor of its Data Protection Quarterly. \"The number of problems raised by the commission seems to indicate the UK government may have misjudged the situation and minimised the effect of too many obligations,\" Dr Pounder said. A Ministry of Justice spokeswoman acknowledged the commission had \"raised a number of issues\" about implementation of the data protection directive and was discussing these with the UK government, but insisted the government had brought the directive into law correctly.",
  "title": "Europe's concern over UK data protection 'defects' revealed",
  "lead": "The European Commission is threatening legal action against the UK government for failing to properly safeguard individuals' personal data.",
  "tags": [
    "uk/uk",
    "world/eu",
    "law/human-rights",
    "world/world",
    "politics/politics",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "world/european-commission",
    "politics/government-data",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "uk/2007/oct/01/eu.humanrights",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}