{
  "content": "The New York Times website remained unavailable for some users on Wednesday morning, after a \"malicious external attack\" on Tuesday. The attack, allegedly conducted by the Syrian Electronic Army, had originally downed the NYT's site on Tuesday, but problems lingered for some almost 24 hours later. Eileen Murphy, a spokeswoman for the NYT, said on Twitter that some users were still unable to access the site due to their \"ISP not yet restoring proper DNS records\". She had confirmed on Tuesday night that the website was \"unavailable today because of an attack on our domain name registrar\". It was the second time in two weeks the NYT's website had gone offline. The previous incident was attributed to maintenance work. The site was offline for two hours. Marc Frons, chief information officer for The New York Times Company said Tuesday's hack was carried out by \"the Syrian Electronic Army, or someone trying very hard to be them.\" He said the hackers had attacked the NYT's domain name registrar: Melbourne IT, enabling them to disrupt access to the Times website. In the immediate aftermath of the attack a Twitter account purporting to represent the Syrian Electronic Army, an internet hacktivist group supportive of the Assad regime, had claimed responsibility. The same account claimed it had seized Twitter's domain. Twitter confirmed that part of its operation used to view images had been affected but did not mention other attacks that appeared to have been carried out by the activists. \"Viewing of images and photos was sporadically impacted. By 22:29 UTC, the original domain record for twimg.com was restored. No Twitter user information was affected by this incident,\" Twitter said in a statement. Twitter appeared to be fully operational on Wednesday. The NYT admitted there were still problems accessing its website in a tweet but encouraged people to use its mobile site. Frons said the attacks on the NYT and Twitter required more skill than the SEA attacks carried out on media outlets earlier this year. The group had previously targeted Twitter accounts for dozens of outlets including The Associated Press. \"In terms of the sophistication of the attack, this is a big deal,\" he said. \"It's sort of like breaking into the local savings and loan versus breaking into Fort Knox. A domain registrar should have extremely tight security because they are holding the security to hundreds if not thousands of Web sites.\" The Syrian Electronic Army allegedly hacked the Washington Post's website on 15 August. Managing editor Emilio Garcia-Ruiz said the website had fallen victim to a \"sophisticated phishing attack to gain password information\". The SEA is a collection of computer hackers who support the Syrian president Bashar al-Assad. They have used denial of service attacks and other methods to target opposition groups and western media websites. The group's relationship with Assad's government is the subject of debate.",
  "title": "NYT website remains unavailable for some users after alleged SEA attack",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/new-york-times",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/us-press-publishing",
    "media/media",
    "world/syria",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/hacking"
  ],
  "lead": "A 'malicious attack' by the Syrian Electronic Army has left the New York Times with lingering problems almost 24 hours later",
  "id": "media/2013/aug/28/newyorktimes-syrian-electronic-army-hack-problems",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}