{
  "content": "Yesterday on Twitter, someone flagged up this video, from the Guardian itself, where a scientist explains how the Higgs Boson works. Except not quite. The scientist is fictional, and is less an authentic scientist than, as many have noticed, a ridiculously exaggerated offensive stereotype of a \"scientist\". This video is the last of a series, one that most scientists have never noticed before now. Weird. Nonetheless, this one certainly drew attention. Mostly bad attention; it's really upset/enraged many scientist types. But others like it, finding it amusing, ironic, an obvious joke etc. As a scientist/science communicator with an extensive comedy background, I'm arguably the best placed person to critique this. So, in the spirit of scientific endeavour, here is a detailed running analysis of the Science Is Everything video \"How does the Higgs Boson work?\" 0:05 - Here we have Jeremy Bumble, our host. Jeremy has a nasal voice, similar to Richard Ayoade as Moss in The IT Crowd, except more high-pitched. He wears glasses that were fashionable for 11 minutes in the 1970s. He has a feeble moustache that look less like a statement of masculinity and more like something you'd scrape off a pork scratching. The name \"Bumble\" and his general demeanour seem inspired by Jerry Lewis's Nutty Professor, so there's a reference for the kids. 0:07 \u2013 Bumble shows us a picture of his father, the \"greatest scientist he ever knew\". His father is an old white man with Mister Burns-style hair, wearing a bow tie and white lab coat. He doesn't have \"scientist\" tattooed on his head. He doesn't need to. 0:18 \u2013 Bumble declares \"Science is everything\", with pull-back and melodramatic 80s-style music. Still seems to be mostly a joke so far, albeit one with all the subtlety and nuance of a brick pie in the face. 0:26 \u2013 Bumble makes a reference to his \"sticky little fingers\", which are now covered in jam. I've a 3 year old son and it's not cute when he does this, so this fully-grown wretch doing it is just nauseating. This may be because Bumble is quite unpleasant. He may be intended as an exaggerated stereotype of a scientist but he's also a stereotypical creepy pervert. I may have the Lonely Island to blame for this, but it's certainly not a helpful association, especially when he waves his jam-caked fingers around while giggling sinisterly. Bleurgh. 0:45 \u2013 Bumble demonstrates matter and tries to kick a football and misses spectacularly. He's a scientist nerd person you see, they can't do sports. 0:55 \u2013 Bumble explains matter exists because of mass, and particles have mass because of the Higgs Boson. What is that? Apparently \"this scientist\" is going to explain. The clear implication is Bumble isn't a scientist. What the hell is he? 1:03 \u2013 Good lord, it's UCL Professor, Higgs-Boson discovery contributor and fellow Guardian science blogger Jon Butterworth. What you doing here, Jon? Prof Butterworth's explanation is simple, brief, informative and clear. It's a terrible thing to include as it's going to undermine the point of the rest of this video, I'm sure. 1:29 \u2013 Yup, Bumble is back, and is more annoying now that he is shown in stark contrast to \"actual\" scientist Prof. Butterworth's calm, casual and not-at-all-ridiculous delivery. Bumble says the beginning of the universe was \"a lot like this party\". Ah, scientists being awkward at a party. We hadn't had a derogatory stereotype for nearly 20 seconds. I was getting worried. 1:43 \u2013 People at a party ignoring each other to illustrate the origins of the universe. I bet this seemed clever on paper, but it's confusing here. But then, I'm not a physicist, maybe I'd get it if I were one? 1:50 \u2013 Repeated close-ups of Bumble don't really help much, given how unpleasant he's seemingly intended to be. 2:00 \u2013 Bumble now demonstrates how the Higgs Boson works via him giving wine to party guests to make them (metaphorically) stick together. The other guy at the party is also something of a clich\u00e9d nerd. The women present don't get any lines because of course women don't do science; everyone knows that. Physics is weird. 2:30 \u2013 Bumble signs off with a thanks to mass and the Higgs Boson and science in general. He leaves by flying off on rocket blasts coming from his feet, something science categorically does not allow to happen. There may have been more to the video but I must have missed it due to being distracted by the blood leaking from my eyes. To be fair, I can see what the film makers have tried to do. The style and several elements mean it's clearly a deliberate joke, and I'm hardly one to criticise someone else for attempting to use humour to promote science. However, this is still awful. You might think I'm just an over-sensitive scientist type, but imagine a similar video about sport with a drunken knuckle-dragging host with a monosyllabic vocabulary and his favourite team written on his exposed beer gut. Or a guide to Scotland with a host in a tartan beret and ginger wig, mumbling incoherently and aggressively while swigging from a bottle of whisky. The internet would burn down before they got to the credits. You could argue that things like The Big Bang Theory or the aforementioned The IT Crowd use a similar approach, but they make the stereotypical lead characters likeable and relatable. In contrast, it's extremely difficult to like Jeremy Bumble; a joke he may be, he crosses the line into unpleasant and offensive, and more than a little sinister, far too often. There are solid arguments to be made for using stereotypes in comedy effectively, but \"effectively\" is the key point; it's difficult to get right, and if it's not clear that you appreciate and like the characters, or are mocking the act of stereotyping etc., it just looks like you're embracing and/or propagating it. If a stereotype is grating, ridiculous and totally lacking in self-awareness, it can be less Maurice Moss, more Mickey Rooney in Breakfast at Tiffany's. And that's not great. Less pleasant people use such stereotypes to mock and bully others, and people can be affected by this no matter how successful they later become. I've discussed it with my Guardian superiors, and this video isn't the work of some major institution a la the \"Science: it's a girl thing\" video. It's by an aspiring fledgling film-maker who won a Guardian contest and got a deal to make these films. Some may see that as insufficient excuse for terrible stereotyping and questionable humour. Perhaps, but as someone who remembers his own first efforts at comedy and writing (and cringes at the thought of them), I do sympathise. We all need time to try stuff out, to experiment (no science pun intended) and to fail. It's how we learn and progress, which is something the online world doesn't allow so much. But if someone were to take my earliest stuff and put it at the front of a major media platform where it was presented as the finished article, that would be an undeniable example of terrible judgement, and that's unfortunately what the Guardian has done here. Maybe it was all well intentioned, meant as a gift to the science community? If it were, it's been received as a gift akin to a crude pair of mittens made from the remains of a beloved but missing cat. This video may be a genuine attempt to communicate science in an alternative and humorous way, but the fact that main thing it's achieved is enraging the science communication community just means it's failed. But then, someone should have stepped in before it got to a point where it could fail so spectacularly. Dean Burnett is aware that humour is subjective and is not just trying to defend his questionable position as \"the guy who does humorous science stuff\". He's on Twitter, @garwboy",
  "title": "How to be an offensive scientist stereotype | Dean Burnett",
  "lead": "Dean Burnett: The recent Guardian video \"How does the Higgs Boson work\" shows a serious error of judgement.",
  "tags": [
    "science/science",
    "science/science-scepticism",
    "media/media",
    "culture/comedy",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "science/brain-flapping/2015/aug/11/offensive-scientist-stereotype",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}