{
  "content": "Which websites do we get our news from? It really depends on where you live. In East Anglia, you love the Sun, Scousers prefer the Mail Online. In Cambridge, it's probably the Guardian, but in Leicestershire it's more likely to be the BBC. Inspired by this great map created by Forbes' Jon Bruner showing US news site use, we wanted to show how people consume news online in the UK. The data comes to us from Bitly. If you've shared a link on Twitter or with friends, the chances are that you've used Bitly. And Bitly, under Hilary Mason, has one of internet's strongest data science teams. They have analysed exactly how those millions of shortened links are used to show how many clicks are happening for what and where. They've given us that data for Britain for April - revealing how people read news around the web via Bitly. You can access that data too, simply adding a \"+\" to any Bitly link, will show you the site stats for that story. This data is basically the next step, showing where all those clicks come from. What does the map show? The map - by Guardian developer Chris Cross - does not show total clicks. If it did that, it would only show those sites with the most traffic: which would mean the BBC, Daily mail or the Guardian in the UK. What Anna Smith at Bitly has done for us instead is to normalise the data. What this means is that it shows the sites and stories which are most increased compared to their average readership across the UK. That way you get the regional variation of news coverage which shows the Scotsman and Wales Online doing well in their home turfs. But it shows also how, even in a small nation like the UK, what you read varies so much around the country - and the stories that pique users' interest. For instance, in Kent, was a Sun story which managed to get both Rihanna and Twitter in the headline; in Devon it was the BBC's photo gallery of pictures from the Pakistan air crash. These aren't necessarily the most popular stories in terms of traffic but are those identified by Bitly as having a disproportionately high interest in that area. Anna Smith explains the Bitly methodology like this: With a data set of millions of clicks in a single month, Bitly has the ability to uncover the most popular websites on the internet. For the Guardian, we have explored the landscape of news outlets in Great Britain. The maps look at bitly clicks made across local authorities for a selected group of dominant news sources by domain. In our analysis we looked at the number of clicks on each news source in each area and normalized them so that we can see the percentage of traffic each source has in that area. For each news source, we can see the representative amount of traffic that is given to that site over the whole UK. The most enlightening graph is where we look at the difference between each local authorities news source distribution and the overall source distribution of the UK. Here we show the source that has the largest difference between these values, thereby showing the news site that best represents that area What do you think it shows - and do you agree? NEW! Buy our book \u2022 Facts are Sacred: the power of data (on Kindle) More open data Data journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian World government data \u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway Development and aid data \u2022 Search the world's global development data with our gateway Can you do something with this data? \u2022 Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group \u2022 Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk \u2022 Get the A-Z of data \u2022 More at the Datastore directory \u2022 Follow us on Twitter \u2022 Like us on Facebook",
  "title": "How Bitly mapped Britain's news websites for us",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/newspapers"
  ],
  "lead": "Which news sites are read disproportionately highly across Britain? See how Bitly mapped Britain",
  "id": "news/datablog/2012/may/16/bitly-news-map-britain-data",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}