{
  "content": "There are few businesses that could resist the onslaught faced by the News of the World in recent days. The media industry cannot avoid almost constant surveillance by commentators of one kind or another on blogs and Twitter, keen to point out mistakes, mishaps and misinformation. Increasingly it is the same for other consumer-facing organisations. Damage limitation is a daily business cost as employees are deployed to rebut allegations or clarify positions. In other areas, such as pharmaceuticals, attacks can snowball and lead to top brands being threatened by boycotts. Companies such as Nestl\u00e9 are known to be ultra-cautious in case they reawaken the type of critics who attacked it vociferously, but ultimately to no great effect, over the \"baby milk to Africa\" scandal. Consumer campaigners resemble swarms of bees drawn towards bad behaviour. The UK Uncut campaign, in which protesters are calling for an end to tax avoidance by large corporations, is similarly focused on social media to organise and generate anger. There are economists who have concluded that, in the search for profit, large organisations are necessarily going to stretch the boundaries of acceptable behaviour; such is the pressure to keep up the quarter-on-quarter growth profile that unethical and even illegal practices are inevitable. The banks were a case in point. A huge proportion of their profits can be described as being derived from near-fraudulent behaviour. For many years, payment protection insurance sold to UK customers made up around 10% of their global profits. Only a weak regulator prevented it from being the subject of criminal prosecutions. PC Plod has consistently failed in the arena of corporate fraud. Despite some valiant efforts, many more frauds go unpunished than end in jail sentences. Banks and other corporations get away with it because few people understand their business. But everyone knows how newspapers work, and they can make the link between pharmaceuticals and harmful side-effects. Maybe the arrival of social networking is akin to the dawn of a new, albeit amateur, anti-fraud squad. Where regulators and Scotland Yard fear to tread, there will be hordes of campaigners, alert to the power of an organised advertising boycott on the media and the potential to harm brands in other areas of the business world. Companies have spent millions establishing armies of public relations experts well trained in handling the aggressive elements of the mainstream media, difficult politicians and troublesome investors. Now there is the unruly mob to handle. It's not going to be easy for the corporate world, but it could be a force for good, encouraging more open ethical behaviour. Then again, it could encourage more secrecy \u2013 which brings us back to the Murdoch empire. The stunning decision to close the News of the World is at once audacious and impressive, cutting off a septic limb, but is unlikely to herald a new dawn of openness. Nothing will discourage Murdoch from keeping much of what News Corp does away from prying eyes, in a complex web of opaque businesses based in offshore tax havens.",
  "title": "Consumer power scores a victory over Murdoch \u2026 for now",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/business",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "technology/twitter",
    "business/nestle",
    "business/banking",
    "money/payment-protection-insurance",
    "media/rupert-murdoch"
  ],
  "lead": "Phillip Inman: Few businesses could resist the onslaught the News of the World has encountered in recent days",
  "id": "business/2011/jul/07/viewpoint-news-international",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}