{
  "content": "Google is facing legal investigations around the world into its Wi-Fi-snooping Street View cars. But after cursory consideration, the UK's information commissioner has forgiven the company this illegal interception in return for a promise to do better in future. Why should any company or government agency care about complying with data protection law if this is the worst they can expect? This is not the first time that the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) has been unable to help the individuals whose privacy it is responsible for protecting. Despite voicing concerns about the growth of a \"surveillance society\", it had little impact on Tony Blair and Gordon Brown's mania for centralised databases. It has taken a change of government to stop the National Identity Scheme and the ContactPoint database of 11 million children. Nor did the ICO take action after tens of thousands of users' browsing behaviour was profiled without their consent by an advert targeting system from Phorm. Privacy watchdogs elsewhere have not been so hesitant in taking action over these issues. Greece and the Czech Republic banned Street View cars over privacy concerns. Nearly 40 US state attorney generals are conducting a joint investigation. German regulators first discovered that Google was collecting Wi-Fi traffic, and are continuing investigations before deciding whether to fine the company. One reason for the weakness of the ICO's response is its lack of powers and resources. The European Commission is taking legal action against the UK for its inadequate data protection laws after complaints about Phorm. A recent report by Douwe Korff for the EU Fundamental Rights Agency accused the ICO of pursuing matters such as the National DNA Database and international transfers of financial and travel information \"half-heartedly, if at all\". The ICO has only just been given the power to fine organisations up to \u00a3500,000 for serious breaches of data protection law. Even if it uses those powers, such sums are significantly less of an incentive than the multimillion-pound fines imposed by the Financial Services Authority on banks and insurers suffering data breaches. The ICO is part of a confusing patchwork of regulators responsible for different areas of privacy law. As well as the FSA, the interception of communications commissioner, surveillance commissioner and Equality and Human Rights Commission all play a role \u2013 alongside the police when criminal breaches occur. But inquiries by the City of London and Metropolitan police into the Phorm trials and Street View were quickly dropped. Police and ICO investigations into news organisations' use of private investigators to illegally gather information \u2013 including hacking into voicemail and \"blagging\" of private information from company databases \u2013 have led to few convictions. The privacy challenges of new technologies are only going to increase over the next decade. Google's CEO Eric Schmidt has spoken of his desire to \"get right up to the creepy line and not cross it\". The home secretary, Theresa May, has repeated her plans to expand surveillance of internet communications to Facebook, Gmail and other new messaging services. Parliament needs to look again at how UK citizens' privacy can be effectively protected. The information commissioner, Christopher Graham, needs the powers and the determination to make sure that companies and government agencies fully follow privacy and human rights laws. Otherwise the UK will continue the fast march into the surveillance society that his predecessor Richard Thomas warned against.",
  "title": "Google Street View has got off lightly | Ian Brown",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/google-street-view",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/computing",
    "technology/mapping-technologies",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Ian Brown: Google deserves more than a slap on the wrist for its Wi-Fi-snooping Street View cars \u2013 our privacy needs protecting",
  "id": "commentisfree/2010/nov/04/google-street-view-got-off-lightly",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}