{
  "content": "Workers who send lewd emails around the office were being targeted unfairly by their employers, the Trades Union Congress yesterday claimed. It warned there had been a \"significant rise\" in sackings and cautions for staff caught in possession of sexually explicit emails, but said the disciplinary action taken was often out of proportion to the offence. Legislation introduced this year allowing companies to monitor office emails had provided a \"green light to go after employees with a heavy hand\". The TUC's claim follows the sacking of 10 staff and the disciplining of up to 80 others this week by the Royal and SunAlliance insurance company after pictures of the cartoon characters Bart Simpson and Kermit the Frog each performing a sex act, and of a naked man being chased by a donkey, were sent around its Liverpool office. The action was taken although an investigation by the company had yet to be completed. The firm said that many other pornographic emails were also uncovered. In other recent cases, more than a dozen City workers from various companies were suspended for distributing an email sent by internet worker Claire Swire to a friend at the bank Norton Rose, which included a joke about a sperm bank; 15 other City traders, including seven women, at the bank Merrill Lynch lost their jobs instantly for circulating soft-porn emails, although the company admitted they were not illegal. Unions believe several hundred office workers have been disciplined or sacked for email offences over the last year. Sarah Veale, a senior policy official at the TUC, said that it believed companies were making an example of some employees in order to score public relations points. \"We believe distributing sexually explicit emails is abhorrent, but companies are sometimes acting out of proportion,\" she said. \"We suspect there has been a significant increase in the number of sackings and disciplinaries since the introduction of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers [RIP] Act in the autumn. \"The act has been a psychological boost for the companies, giving them a green light and considerable latitude to go after employees with a heavy hand. The companies are keen to demonstrate thay they will deal very severely with cases such as these, but really they are courting publicity and are keen to be seen to be taking a tough line.\" The Confederation of British Industry said that the laws were needed to \"reinforce the companies' ability to police emails and protect staff from being offended\". However, the act is likely to be softened by guidance in the spring, in the form of a data protection code which the government is drafting after ending consultation with companies and unions yesterday. The code is expected to open the door to legal challenges to the blanket surveillance of emails. Ms Veale commented: \"Companies will need to be very careful because the code will impose important restrictions on what they can get away with.\"",
  "title": "TUC claims firms overreact by sacking staff for lewd office emails",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "money/work-and-careers",
    "money/money",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/email",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Workers who send lewd emails around the office were being targeted unfairly by their employers, the Trades Union Congress yesterday claimed. ",
  "id": "technology/2001/jan/06/security.workandcareers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}