{
  "content": "Recent surveys have shown a dwindling in community spirit with more than 70% of people having no contact with their neighbours. The combination of the jubilee celebrations and the Olympics showed a different picture, with 12 million adults taking part in local events and meeting on average five neighbours they didn't know before. This suggests that people are not only willing, but keen to connect with their community when given a reason or opportunity. This community spirit is borne out by the rise in online networks over the last decade with people coming together over a shared interest or issue. From fan fiction sites, such as Fan Fiction where people share and get feedback on their stories, to online support groups such as Netbuddy, which offers advice for carers of those with disabilities and special needs, people are coming together in their millions to share knowledge and experiences, get support and mobilise action. While one of the characteristics \u2013 and strengths \u2013 of many online networks is that their members can live thousands of miles apart, there is a growing interest in using online networks to bolster physical communities, to address local issues and galvanise local action. Some examples include Streetbank which allows neighbours to share tools, books, DVDs as well as exchange skills; Ecomodo which supports local lending circles; Fix My Street which encourages people to report and discuss local problems from fly tipping to broken street lighting; Tyze which is creating personal, local online networks to support those requiring home care and Transition Network which supports and trains communities to come together and reduce CO2 emissions. At Nominet Trust, we are particularly interested in how these and other online networks are tapping into and reorganising resources in local communities, using online to mobilise offline action in the physical world. The rise of online networks, ranging from the global to the hyperlocal, helps us to think differently about what community means in the 21st century. Communities of interest and practice can be created between people living next door or on the other side of the world to each other. The only requirement is shared motivation, a common concern, mutual interest. Already millions of people are creating and using digital technology to come together to help each other and to shape the world around them. They may not always be as visible as the bunting of a jubilee street party but online networks are fostering powerful new forms of community and enabling collaboration for social good on a significant scale. Annika Small is chief executive of Social Investor, Nominet Trust. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the voluntary sector network, click here.",
  "title": "How online networks can transform communities",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "voluntary-sector-network/community-action",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network-blog",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/communities"
  ],
  "lead": "The Olympics and jubilee helped neighbours meet up, but digital technology can help continue a sharing of interests and activities, says Annika Small",
  "id": "voluntary-sector-network/2012/oct/23/online-networks-transform-communities-digital-technology",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}