{
  "content": "I loved it. The whole wonderful, anachronistic, uniquely British spectacle. There I sat, glass of wine in one hand, iPhone in the other; watching the political Twittersphere pressed into the service of the monarchy. For a time we tried to keep on message. Just how many council seats would the PM's morning suit cost his party? Would Gordon Brown attempt to storm the abbey and have to be wrestled to the ground by a squad of lifeguards? Then we started to drift. Had Nick Clegg's wife come as a flamenco dancer? Was Sally Bercow showing an inappropriate amount of decolletage? When I saw the general secretary of the Fabians tweeting his support for Samantha Cameron's decision to go hatless I knew the game was up. I managed to hold out until Jerusalem, then burst into tears. A former Labour spin doctor, trade union official and antifascist campaigner blubbing over Blake, the second in line to the throne and a Sarah Burton dress. It's OK. The left are allowed to love a good wedding too. In fact, it's important we do. Yes, all the pomp and circumstance sits uneasy with some. We live in an age of austerity, cuts and deepening social inequality. But the cuts will still be there on Monday. In fact, if this week's growth figures are anything to go by, there'll be plenty of Mondays to come. Not every event needs to be forced through a political prism. And the left has to show the capacity to sit back and let its hair down once in a while. \"Today reminds us of how Britain is in need of democracy, modernity and equality,\" steamed my New Statesman colleague Mehdi Hasan. Calm down, dear, and listen to the vicar. In fairness, Hasan was speaking from a position of principled republicanism, rather than engaging in general toff-bashing. But even the most hardline republican should have realised today wasn't their day. There will be others. Prince Andrew will no doubt be jetting off on a trade mission some time soon. But if you really feel enraged at the prospect of Queen Kate, it's probably best to bide your time. What it's best not to do is what Peter Hain did, and start ranting at the BBC (whose camerawork was genuinely breathtaking at times) for failing to give us enough pictures of Ed Miliband. Somehow I doubt the White City switchboard was jammed with irate callers screaming, \"Get away from that posh bird in the tiara and give me more shots of the tribune of the squeezed middle\". The Tories are still struggling to ditch their image as the nasty party. Labour don't need to cast themselves as the party poopers. My attitude to the day's festivities was shaped very much by Billy Bragg's old attitude to the union flag. It's something that belongs to the whole nation. So why let the right appropriate it? Of course, engaging in that spirit may have been made a little easier if more Billy Braggs had been invited, and fewer sultans of Brunei. Or, as a halfway house, maybe the odd former Labour prime minister. But that's just splitting hairs. Most of the country will have thought it was a pretty impressive spectacle, and a fun occasion. And if the left wants to represent the country again we need to at least empathise with that view, even if we don't feel like throwing a street party, kissing a pearly queen and belting out the chorus of \"Get me to the church on time\". What we saw today wasn't a celebration of aristocratic privilege. It was a celebration of a shared heritage. A heritage that is owned as much by the left as by the right. That's if we want to share them. And I do. I covet my arrows of desire and my chariot of fire. But if Kate and Wills want to borrow them for their special day, that's fine by me.",
  "title": "We needn't be royal wedding party poopers just because we're leftwing | Dan Hodges",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/royal-wedding",
    "uk/prince-william",
    "uk/duchess-of-cambridge",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "lifeandstyle/weddings",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/labour",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/republicanism",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "Dan Hodges: The royal wedding is part of our country's shared heritage. A heritage owned as much by the left as by the right",
  "id": "commentisfree/2011/apr/29/royal-wedding-leftwing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}