{
  "content": "Should postcodes and their match to a particular longitude and latitude \u2013 even if that's approximate \u2013 be free? Royal Mail, which owns the copyright to the Postcode Address File (PAF), would point out that it is not: the PAF, in its many forms, generates millions of pounds of revenue for it. (In 2006 it generated \u00a31.58m of profits on revenues of \u00a318.36m, of which \u00a314.9m was from PAF resellers.) But to a number of web developers, the licensing issues surrounding the PAF and its licensing are beyond endurance. So they have set up a site that hovers on the borders of legality, using the name of Ernest Marples who, as Postmaster General, introduced the postcode in 1959. Marples probably never considered that the postcode could be a source of revenue. In Marples's day it was simply useful. Which is what the developers behind ernestmarples.com are looking to do: make the postcode free to use once more. But this time, with some added information \u2013 the longitude and latitude. A simple command-line call to ernestmarples.com will provide a long/lat pair for any of the 1.7m full postcodes (such as N1 9GU, for the Guardian). Those of coursearen't precise; a single postcode can cover 100 delivery points (the average is 15). The long/lat pair given for the Guardian is at least a hundred yards away from the building. Richard Pope and Harry Metcalfe, the developers behind it \u2013 and behind planningalerts.com (which tells you about planning applications near you) and jobcentreproplus.com (on job vacancies near you) \u2013 insist they have the interests of everyone at heart. \"Postcodes are really useful, but the powers that be keep them closed, unless you have loads of money to pay for them. Which makes it hard to build useful websites (and that makes Ernest [Marples] sad),\" they say on the site. \"So we are setting them free and using them to run Planning Alerts and Jobcentre ProPlus. We're doing the same as everyone's being doing for years, but just being open about it. \"Hopefully, the government and Royal Mail will realise the value of this service and license us to offer it officially and for free. If not, and this website gets shut down, we'll close the websites we've made that make use of this site's lookup service. Permanently.\" The site is on the edge of legality, they say. \"We're not actually sure how illegal it really is, as all we are doing is acting as a proxy for information contained in webpages. We do not cache the information at any point, so are not imposition of a full or partial copy of the postcode database.\" This is definitely a grey area, and comes down to this: is it illegal to transfer the long/lat information outside of that webpage in any form? Would it be illegal if your browser realised it was looking at a mapping page and acted on the information contained in the HTML (via a microformat or whatever)? Or if the mapping service offered the capacity to 'send this location to my phone or GPS device'?\" Google does that in the US, they note. \"If you take this to an extreme logical conclusion, and assume for the moment that it is illegal for postcode-geocoded data to be transferred out of a webpage (of a company with a postcode licence) to any other device or service, we could end up in a situation where everybody in the country needs a license to use their phones.\" It's a strange conclusion which could mean that, just as \"ripping\" songs from CDs is technically illegal but never prosecuted, the same may be done for building a database of long/lat information postcode data. The benefits are clear, the loss to Royal Mail zero \u2013 since those developers using a free long/lat service would never pay for one themselves.",
  "title": "Free our data: web developers working to make postcode data freely available",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/free-our-data",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/post",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "politics/government-data"
  ],
  "lead": "Free our data: Royal Mail holds the copyright to the Postcode Address File, but a new database aims to make postcode-geocoded data available to all",
  "id": "technology/2009/jul/22/free-our-data",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}