{
  "content": "One question we journalists tend to be asked most often by those people we call \"ordinary members of the public\" is simple enough. Where, they ask, do stories come from? But, as you all know, it's difficult to give a straightforward answer because there are so many routes. If we choose to talk about \"contacts\" or \"sources\", then explaining who they are and how we obtain them often proves tricky too. We know that from our earliest moments in journalism we learn that cultivating sources is our key task. Sources are our lifeblood. No sources, no stories. We can all witness events, such as riots, and describe what is before our eyes. We can turn up at courts and council meetings and parliamentary debates and record what is said and also interpret why it was said. Getting genuine news stories, the ones that lie hidden, whether on purpose or by accident, is altogether different. Complicating the easy flow of information Obtaining documentary evidence can be crucial (as WikiLeaks illustrated), but most genuine news stories emerge because journalists have forged relationships with other human beings. Cub reporters learn the importance of getting close to people who, by the nature of their occupation, have information that would otherwise remain secret. They include police, fire officers, hospital secretaries, undertakers, coroners' officers, court officials, council bureaucrats and, of course, a variety of PRs. At the beginning of my career, this wasn't viewed as a controversial matter and, in the main, it isn't so today, though the rise of the public relations \"industry\" has had a markedly negative effect. PRs churn out \"information\", but it is - by its nature - anodyne. Public relations is very different from public interest. The easy flow of public interest information from source to reporter has become more complicated when PRs act as gatekeepers to knowledge. Nowhere has this been more obvious than in the way journalists interact with police officers. When I started out as a reporter every day began with a visit to Barking police station for a chat with the duty sergeant. He (and it was always a male in those days) would consult the OB, the occurrence book, and read out noteworthy incidents. Some sergeants gave the information grudgingly, some turned the book around so that I could read it. That's how I learned about misbehaviour in the community \u2013 burglaries, pub assaults, accidents, domestic disputes, overnight arrests. Some I followed up with visits while some warranted a mere paragraph. Some, such as the domestics, were unreportable. It was only natural that I should also meet and get to know other officers, particularly the younger constables who were closer to my age. We drank together. I often attended their parties. I went to the cinema a couple of times with one sergeant and once babysat for another. Knowing where to draw the line My police \"contacts\", as I came to call them, appeared to know where to draw the line between what I should and should not be told. Similarly, I learned what could be reported and what could not. There was no trade in information. No money changed hands, and I recall that they paid for drinks more often than I did since they earned more than me. These were commonsensical relationships built on trust and a measure of friendship. Thinking back, I guess they might well have inhibited my being critical of the force, though that problem didn't arise at the time. The central point of this reminiscence - prompted by the current nervousness of certain authorities (and, possibly, the public) to contacts between journalists and police officers - to is to emphasise the mundane nature of this old way of doing the news business. Informal contacts between a journalist and a police officer need not be in the least contentious. With the introduction of PRs, a move that police forces appeared to imagine would enhance the flow of information, the situation has certainly changed. All too often, the official release of information is formal, narrowly defined and delayed. Many police forces also withhold information by citing, often inaccurately, the Data Protection Act, which protects people's privacy. As a result, most police officers have tended to be more circumspect in their dealings with reporters. Assuming that contacts are sinister Even so, the dialogues between the two have never been totally terminated. Now, though, some meetings have become covert, assuming a sinister aspect that was never previously the case. Both sides know that senior officers and their public relations squads disapprove of unofficial leaks. Yet, the clamp on information, allied to the British penchant for official secrecy \u2013 a disease more rampant here than in many other countries \u2013 encourages reporters to seek out pliant police officers. In general, they are not offered financial inducements, nor do they seek them. Both sides know this would be illegal. Most leaks occur because of a mutuality of interest, a genuine belief by representatives on each side that the public does have a right to know about hidden facts. I have no idea what motivated the person who leaked the information that led The Guardian to publish its story about the hacking of Milly Dowler's phone. But is anyone prepared to say that it was wrong for that leak to have occurred? Consider the consequences following the story's publication... It led to the closure of the News of the World, the resignation of senior News International executives, the downfall of the Met commissioner and one of his lieutenants, a slew of arrests, the acute embarrassment of prime minister David Cameron, the humbling of media mogul Rupert Murdoch, a judicial inquiry into press regulation and a continuing investigation by MPs into media ethics. So the story's emergence, courtesy of a confidential source, was of inestimable public value with ramifications that are yet to run their course. The Guardian reporter and the police leaker were performing a public duty. Public interest disclosure is our raison d'\u00eatre. Upholding the law is the police's reason to exist. The exposure of the Dowler episode was an example of the paper doing its job properly because the police had failed to do theirs. Remember the wise words of Lord Northcliffe: \"News is what somebody, somewhere wants to suppress; all the rest is advertising.\" The police did suppress news. NB: Some of this material appears in my London Evening Standard column today.",
  "title": "Why we journalists need confidential police sources",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/theguardian",
    "uk/police",
    "uk/milly-dowler",
    "media/wikileaks",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "politics/davidcameron",
    "media/rupert-murdoch",
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/london-evening-standard",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "media/press-intrusion"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade argues that The Guardian and the police leaker acted in the public interest",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2011/sep/21/theguardian-police",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}