{
  "content": "Evan Williams, the chief executive of Twitter, told the Web 2.0 conference in San Francisco that he wants to get rid of Twitter's internally-created Suggested User List (SUL) - in favour of user-created lists. It's a very short exchange - with the question actually asked by Tim O'Reilly - and it goes like this (transcription courtesy of TechCrunch): Q: For a long time there was only one list, the SUL. Is it time to retire it? EW: Yes, it's time to retire the SUL. It was a quick fix to a problem. We want to kill it when lists come out. We've pointed to lists last week - apologies to everyone who has tried to follow the links and found that they don't work; this means that you've not yet had lists enabled on your Twitter account. (And for those not on Twitter, it makes even less sense.) At the time I wondered whether it was a sign of Twitter mining its users for reputation; it seems that's indeed the plan. Yet it's hard to see quite how Twitter would be able to put enough lists in front of people to make it the right experience. The benefit of the SUL is that it's a fairly wide selection of people who you automatically get signed up to follow, giving you a taster of what's out there. (It's pretty broad, including John McCain and, yes, Guardian Technology's feed. We had no knowledge of Twitter's decision to put us on there, and there is no commercial arrangement.) Possibly it will do something rather like Who Should I Follow, which offers you names of people to follow based on topics you pick; for my money it's one of the better starting-on-Twitter tools out there. Also dealt with in the interview (principally with John Battelle) were things like revenue (yes, Twitter wants it, but is still focussed on growth); why he didn't sell to Facebook - \"I didn't see a reason to sell. 'Business is a context for doing interesting things.' The number of cool things we can do with Twitter blows my mind. Going to a bigger company doesn't make that better\"; how it's going to kill spam (\"overactive spam killing scripts\" - who knew? - are apparently the reason why some users, such as O'Reilly himself, get knocked off without explanation; and, finally, something on search. It's on search that it gets interesting. After Battelle compliments Williams on Twitter's usefulness to journalist, Williams responds: \"We're putting a ton of effort into search and discovery. We've just scratched the surface on it. We need to be more intelligent about mining this data.\" JB: Search deals with Google and Microsoft? EW: What deals? (awkward) Seriously though, we think third-parties can come up with great tools for people in the media. Which takes us smoothly over to All Things Digital, where Kara Swisher says that sources tell her that Microsoft's search engine Bing is close to integrating Twitter into its search results. That would be quite a coup - though it's said to be a non-exclusive deal. We already know that the people at the top of Google are mad keen to get Twitter's results into their searches: Marissa Mayer almost said as much when I interviewed her in July. Swisher notes: But sources close to the situation caution that the deal could still run into a snag and was not yet complete, although it seems more likely than not that a deal will soon be struck with Microsoft first and then Google, which is the other company Twitter has also been negotiating with. If Twitter's really looking for revenue, it could do worse than ask one of those two giants for a bit of cash. Meanwhile, we have some more Twitter lists to build...",
  "title": "Twitter plans to kill off Suggested User List - and get onto Bing",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/microsoft",
    "technology/searchengines",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/evan-williams",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "The microblogging service still has great plans - and didn't think that selling itself to Facebook was the way to do them, chief executive Evan Williams explains",
  "id": "technology/blog/2009/oct/21/twitter-microsoft",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}