{
  "content": "The British mouse didn't roar. Indeed, it barely squeaked. But consider: the partner of \u2013 and courier for \u2013 a Guardian journalist held for nearly nine hours in transit at Heathrow, his computer and memory sticks seized under a section of the Terrorism Act that even the lawyers who drafted it don't think fits. The editor of the Guardian obliged to stand idly by as two top men from GCHQ demand computer hard drives smashed in his paper's basement. You don't get press freedom issues more starkly defined than that. The Committee to Protect Journalists in New York sees the threat. So do Index on Censorship, Liberty and all the campaigning rest. The Council of Europe and Barack Obama both recoil from the methods employed. Welcome to pariah state status (renewed). If wrecking those computers was a \"symbolic\" act, as editor Alan Rusbridger says, then the symbolism is truly terrible. Yet our own press, so vocal in defending its liberties when royal charters and cold pizza are on the table, has seemed split and petty and muffled when put to the test. Of course, I believe \u2013 well, I would, wouldn't I? \u2013 that the Guardian is fighting this surveillance fight with calm and skill: that those, in the name of democracy, who seek to smother its efforts under a blanket of intimidation are betraying themselves as well as us. But it's worth pausing along the way for a second and seeing how one battle goes with another, and perhaps why this damned mouse has been such a paltry disappointment. Liz Gerard, a vibrant media blogger, lays it on the line. Because \"whistleblowing, leaking, what you will, is not an activity that is of intrinsic interest to readers\", she writes. Because \"the Miranda story has been treated as almost just another episode in the Guardian's personal drama\". Because \"it's an easy way to get at the Guardian, the unloved team member, the holier-than-thou paper that brought Leveson and all its horrors raining down on us\". So the Telegraph, Mail, Express and co. are excused boots (but allowed acrid commentary just offstage when more Sun journalists are scooped up in the Met's Operation Elveden net). In short, there's another sort of warfare here as Fleet Street's big battalions seek to get their Independent Press Standards Organisation (successor to the Press Complaints Commission) up and running \u2013 and the pesky Guardian stands aside in lonely disapproval. One awkward-squad thing goes with another. And it is also perhaps time to note how, even day by day, such things move rapidly on. Rusbridger's resourceful defences of his position have themselves developed since the Snowden story broke and began a hot summer in Washington DC. For instance, Rusbridger now declares: \"David Miranda's professional status \u2013 with much hand-wringing about whether or not he's a proper 'journalist' \u2013 is largely irrelevant in these circumstances. Increasingly, the question about who deserves protection should be less 'is this a journalist?' than 'is the publication of this material in the public interest?'.\" Ends, not means. And thus, when the hard disks were ceremonially crunched, nothing substantive happened in the editor's view. \"Bluntly, we did not have to do our reporting out of London. Already, most of the National Security Agency stories were being reported and edited out of New York \u2026 We will continue to do patient, painstaking reporting on the Snowden documents, we just won't do it in London.\" Pragmatic defiance, not subservience. The New York Times is signed up as nifty publishing partner. All the visiting cabinet secretaries and heavy mobs up from Cheltenham, all the legal threats of prior restraint, can't stop the march of digital exploration. This is a new era \u2013 and one where \"total surveillance\", when it comes, means \"it may not be long before it will be impossible for journalists to have confidential sources \u2026 Those colleagues who denigrate Snowden or say reporters should trust the state to know best \u2026 may one day have a cruel awakening. One day it will be their reporting, their cause, under attack.\" Yet how does any of this fit with the thrust of Leveson and its incipient implementation? Answer: it doesn't. You may, if you wish, posit two separate regulatory-cum-legislative regimes: one designed to shelter investigations undertaken in \"the public interest\", however defined, the other aimed at the red-top press and its racy ways with personal privacy. But this, frankly, is to bay at the moon. Must every case involving the Sun fall one side of the line and every case involving an upmarket journalist automatically drop into another category? None of this touches legal reality. None of it responds to last week's predictably complex high court decision between \"national security\" and \"criminal inquiry\" over the use of Miranda's seized computer information \u2013 pending full hearings and fuller days in court for lawyers, of course. Leveson, remember, is the work of a very senior judge prescribing more work for senior judges (in arbitration, in verifying the purity of regulatory processes, in sanctifying the PCC's independent successor). The first name emerging from government circles as supreme arbiter of such sanctity was Lord (Simon) Brown \u2013 once president of the intelligence services tribunal and related matters. But, frankly, it beggars belief that any top retired judge, called \"independently\" to perform this kind of service, would take a much different view. The law starts from one point, journalism from another. The law \u2013 in Leveson terms \u2013 wants long, winding audit trails involving so many lugubrious stamps of approval that even the BBC committee system would grow weak at the knees. It needs specific stories passing various hurdles of serious scrutiny on the road to publication, thousands of stolen disks that may or may not ever be deemed fit to print. It wants the issues to be decided in court neatly organised. By contrast, journalism, as Rusbridger says, is about what's there to be published, what editors think we need to know. Our law operates in one jurisdiction, England and Wales: other countries have quite different systems (see the US on privacy, for instance). Does that mean that something of great public interest can be investigated and then published by the same newspaper or website in one country and not in another because of prevailing self-regulatory undertakings? If so, shouldn't codes of conduct transcend national boundaries, too? But then, how do you do that if the laws that lie behind them, the imperatives they mirror, are often wholly different? How do you operate when, as here, the apparatus of the state is the enemy? There's a whole landscape of operation here that, frankly, Leveson never addressed. There's a whole dawn of cruel awakenings that the debate about self-regulation hasn't begun to tackle. I'm always anxious about grand arguments that invoke the public interest only for one side of Fleet Street. (I thought Detective Inspector April Casburn of the Met was probably in good public interest territory when she rang up the News of the World and said anti-terrorist inquiries were suffering because too many officers had been shifted to anti-hacking duty: but that's no consolation to her as she serves her 15 months). The difficulty now is that good journalism and the Guardian deserve every scrap of support they can muster, because the essence of their trade is at risk. But the difficulty beyond that is that such backing, with such good intentions, doesn't fall into one easy basket serving one particular audience. The next source to find himself banged up at Heathrow could belong to the Mail or the Mirror. The next intermediary peddling stolen goods could go to the Telegraph (in fact, the last one did go to the Telegraph). The next case with something horrid happening in the digital basement could quite spoil Paul Dacre's day. The next reporter to find police knocking on the door could belong to the FT, Indy or \u2013 perish the thought \u2013 Observer. And maybe the last Sun reporter to be arrested made it seem more natural to arrest all reporters when required. It's an argument that splits both ways, then \u2013 and one that almost starts afresh as Leveson gathers dust. There may, in this new digital world of symbolic gestures and futilities, be no imposed regime that fits every bill. It may simply prove an impossible concept. We may all have to start with what's there to be published, not what we think ought to be published using only wholesome, genteel methods. Freedom in this infernally complex new wired world may use little boxes called computers, but it cannot live inside them. You can have freedom to squabble, argue and sneer: but not the freedom to bully and suppress. Journalists of all persuasions will certainly have to compromise and learn the essence of mutual respect. But think of the gains of broader basic unity in the end. Imagine a din that echoes through every airport transit lounge, every computer storage basement and every nook and cranny from Westminster to Cheltenham \u2013 not the silence of the damned out-of-hand.",
  "title": "The next David Miranda might work for the Daily Mail",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/david-miranda",
    "media/press-regulation",
    "us-news/the-nsa-files",
    "us-news/nsa",
    "media/theguardian",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "world/world",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "Peter Preston: Recent developments show dangers of press infighting \u2013 but also that public interest defences must extend to tabloids",
  "id": "world/2013/aug/24/david-miranda-guardian-broadsheet-tabloid-press",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}