{
  "content": "Facebook may control the social graph of 1.3 billion people, but now it has ambitions to stretch deeper into the workplace, according to the Financial Times' report on plans for \"Facebook at Work\". This isn't about getting around corporate firewalls to ensure you can see which Frozen character your friends are, though. It's a proper move to compete with services from Google Drive and LinkedIn to Slack, and become a serious working tool. \"The Silicon Valley company is developing a new product designed to allow users to chat with colleagues, connect with professional contacts and collaborate over documents,\" claimed the FT. \"The new site will look very much like Facebook \u2013 with a newsfeed and groups \u2013 but will allow users to keep their personal profile with its holiday photos, political rants and silly videos separate from their work identity.\" It might be a sensible move for Facebook, but how will workers (and bosses) feel about their data being shared and stored on the social network? Workplace collaboration in the cloud isn't an alien concept for many businesses now, but I wonder how Facebook providing this will be received. What do you think? The comments section is open for your thoughts. Also on the technology radar today: Spotify and Uber team up for in-car music Uber is holding a press call with a \"special partner guest\" later today, but their identity is out: streaming music service Spotify. You'll apparently be able to control the music played in your Uber car from your smartphone, with the tunes delivered from Spotify to the driver's handset. Facebook to crack down on 'overly promotional' page posts If you've liked Facebook pages that tend to pump out contests or \"please buy our thing\" posts, expect to see them less in your feed from January. \"Pages that post promotional creative should expect their organic distribution to fall significantly over time,\" explains the social network. Accusations of Tor smearing campaign A piece by Yasha Levine on PandoDaily, outlining the response from the Tor community to a previous article examining the relationship between the online anonymity tool and US intelligence agencies. Google's Project Tango tablet hits the Play store Project Tango is one of Google's most interesting initiatives around mobile: 3D sensors and all manner of other tech to understand the world around you. Now the first tablet can be bought, although seemingly only if you ordered it at Google's I/O conference earlier in the year. Kung Fu Robot crowdfunding campaign Kung Fu Robot was one of the most characterful children's apps I saw in the last couple of years. Now its makers are trying to raise $19,500 to turn it into a hardback comic anthology and a new app. Porn stars explain net neutrality From Funny Or Die, an alternative take on the debate that's sparking up again in the US this month. Sort-of safe for work (SoSFW?) in that they're nude, but the bits your boss might be cross at are safely masked out.",
  "title": "Facebook at Work to take on LinkedIn and Google Drive",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/tablet-computer",
    "technology/android",
    "technology/kickstarter",
    "technology/net-neutrality",
    "technology/spotify",
    "technology/uber",
    "technology/digital-music-and-audio"
  ],
  "lead": "Have your say on the social network's move into business, Spotify's Uber deal, Google's Project Tango and more. By Stuart Dredge",
  "id": "technology/blog/2014/nov/17/facebook-at-work-linkedin-google-drive",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}