{
  "content": "Today marks yet another launch by a man who has made something of a career out of journalistic launches. Step forward Simon Kelner, former editor of the Independent and now chief executive of the Journalism Foundation. His new organisation is a not-for-profit body aimed at supporting \"free, fair and independent journalism\" anywhere in the world. It has a high-minded brief to promote journalism, Kelner says \"as an essential tool of an open democracy\". Its birth is the result of discussions held between Kelner and his immediate boss, Evgeny Lebedev, as they mulled over his agreed departure from the editor-in-chief's chair at the Independent in July this year. In company with his father, Alexander, Lebedev was eager create an organisation that could promote and enhance free speech. Kelner was then given a free hand to set one up and organise it. The initial result, as its website, thejournalismfoundation.com, reveals today, is the launch of two very different projects, one with an ambitious international perspective and the other, within Britain, designed to show how journalism can be built up from the grassroots through digital media. In the former case, the foundation is working with City University London to create journalism courses in Tunisia. Since the overthrow of its president, Ben Ali, there has been a surge in journalistic enthusiasm, with the granting of more than 100 media business licences and the launch of as many as 20 newspapers. But, says Kelner \"a free press is an alien concept\" so there is a need for people to learn how to practise the craft of journalism. Though the revolt was fuelled by bloggers and tweeters, the emerging journalists need support and help. \"That's where we come in,\" says Kelner. Training courses are expected to start early in the new year. Charlie Burgess, a veteran Fleet Street executive now working for the foundation, and Lis Howell, who is deputy chief of City University's journalism faculty, were in Tunisia last week to talk to leaders of the journalists' union and senior media figures. If the initiative pans out as Kelner expects then he hopes to do the same in Libya and in other countries in the Middle East. The second project is altogether different. It involves a one-man hyperlocal website in Stoke-on-Trent called pitsnpots. Its creator, Mike Rawlins, felt there was a failure to report local council affairs and soon discovered an eager audience. Kelner says: \"He manages to cover local politics in such an impartial and fair way that even if you read it closely you won't be able to tell his political leanings.\" However, Rawlins lacked the resources to develop his site. So the foundation is stepping in to help him take it to the next level. It will also monitor whether this exercise has any effect on dismal voting turnouts in the area. \"We want to measure engagement in local democracy,\" says Kelner. After 13 years as editor of the Indy, including a two-year stint as managing director, Kelner talks excitedly of the foundation's potential to have \"a direct and positive effect on people's lives\". He continues: \"This is not journalism for journalists' sake. Journalism, like free speech, belongs to everyone. So the projects we're interested in are those designed for the public good. \"I know it may seem strange to say so, what with the Leveson inquiry and the decline of the regional newspaper industry, but I don't think there's ever been a better time to be a journalist. \"There is more access to information through the net and the means to disseminate it, cheaper and easier than ever before. As long as one can throw off the idea that journalism is about professionals in traditional media, it's a glorious time to be a journalist.\" The foundation, which has obtained charitable status, is being underwritten initially by the Lebedevs. It hopes to raise funds in future through donations, hopefully including media organisations, and through fundraising events. It has an impressive group of trustees: Baroness Kennedy, Lord Fowler and Sir John Tusa, along with Evgeny Lebedev as chairman. It is expected that Carl Bernstein of Watergate fame will also be joining the trust soon. The foundation has received warm support from many high-profile writers, journalists and politicians, including Salman Rushdie, Lord Ashdown, former Daily Telegraph editor Sir Max Hastings, and current editors, such as James Harding of the Times, Alan Rusbridger of the Guardian and the Daily Mail's Paul Dacre. Hastings says: \"This is a time when bad and corrupt journalism is receiving extraordinary exposure in Britain, which makes the promotion of good, brave and campaigning journalism all the more important. \"The objectives of the Journalism Foundation deserve the widest support from everybody who cares about honest communication in the 21st century.\" Kelner provides many similar accolades, sure in the conviction that it is the kind of initiative bound to paint journalism in a better, more positive light, at a time of troubled introspection. Does he miss the editor's chair? He says firmly he does not, adding: \"Editing a national newspaper is the greatest job you could ever have in journalism, an almost unalloyed joy. There isn't any job that provides as much interest, excitement, intrigue and access. \"But, if I'm being self critical, I had stopped learning. I needed to do something different.\" His links to the paper remain firm. He is still on the board of the Independent Print and he writes a daily column for the Indy's colourful sister title i, which he helped to launch. He regards that launch, along with his switching of the paper from broadsheet to tabloid, as the two high points of his editorship. There are two other very different landmark moments that give him pleasure too. First, the singling out of the Independent by Tony Blair as the worst of the \"feral beasts\" in a critical speech about newspapers as he departed from Downing Street. Kelner says: \"I took that as huge compliment. If we'd got under his skin by our opposition to the Iraq war then we had every reason to be proud.\" And the second? That was the famous occasion in April 2010 when James Murdoch and Rebekah Brooks stormed into the Indy office to complain about the paper's promotional slogan: \"Rupert Murdoch won't decide this election \u2013 you will.\" Murdoch's foul-mouthed tirade took Kelner by surprise. \"I had previously enjoyed cordial relations with James and Rebekah,\" he says. \"It was so bizarre. I was embarrassed for them, for myself and for the people around the backbench. I don't mind admitting I was also slightly intimidated.\" As with all such incidents, he later thought of all the things he should have said to them before walked out. Unsurprisingly, though he has met many industry figures in recent weeks to discuss the journalism foundation, he hasn't called on James Murdoch. He concludes, however, with what he refers to as \"a call to arms\" to all media owners. \"We want individuals and organisations to fund this noble purpose. Journalism is the bedrock of democracy, and that's why this venture is so important.\" CV Born: 1957 Prestwich, Manchester Education: Bury grammar school. Preston Polytechnic, (now University of Central Lancashire) Employment: 1976: Neath Guardian. 1980: Kent Evening Post. 1983: The Observer (assistant sports editor) 1986: The Independent (deputy sports editor ) 1989: Observer magazine and then Mail on Sunday magazine editor. 1998: The Independent (editor-in-chief). 2008: Independent managing director. April 2010: reappointed Indy until July 2011.",
  "title": "Simon Kelner: 'It's a glorious time to be a journalist'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/simon-kelner",
    "media/theindependent",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/journalism-education",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/jamesmurdoch",
    "media/rebekahwade"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade: The former Indy editor-in-chief's new organisation aims to support 'fair journalism' in places such as Tunisia",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2011/dec/05/simon-kelner-brooks-murdoch",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}