{
  "content": "Mention care.data to most people and they won't have a clue what you are talking about. Mention privacy and that's a different matter. A YouGov poll this month revealed that 72% of British adults are concerned about the security of their private information and unauthorised access to their data. Yet, as we head to the polls on May 7th, how many of those people opted out of the open or edited register so they don't get bombarded with spam emails and junk mail? The problem is that while the government slowly but surely gets more connected, the amount of data at its disposal and the perceived threat of abuse that goes with it, increases dramatically. Data management is getting more complicated for both people and politicians to understand and it's not exactly an election winner either. The coalition government's privatisation of the Post Office last year and the subsequent selling off of the postcode address file (PAF) ruffled a few feathers but there was no widespread public outrage. Not even singer and activist Billy Bragg mustered a song about it. But think of all the startups, app developers and data hackers the coalition has actively encouraged through funding deals and rebates for investors, but which are now forced to pay license fees for valuable key address data. This was public data. It's now private. The reality is that data is not particularly sexy and there is a danger that all this joined-up government (a Tony Blair New Labour term) and lack of data comprehension will inevitably lead to further errors of judgement over public data use. Unless you employ someone who gets it, who understands the growing importance of public data. In March this year Mike Bracken became that person. Executive director of digital in the Cabinet Office and head of the Government Digital Service (GDS), he was handed the role of chief data officer (CDO) by the then minister for the Cabinet Office Francis Maude. It was a milestone reached. Britain's first chief data officer. But is this what we really need? \"I am not convinced,\" says open data campaigner Owen Boswarva. \"And the fact that the Cabinet Office has created this as an additional role for Mike Bracken, rather than bringing in someone new, suggests ministers and/or the civil service may not be completely sure either.\" This suggested lack of understanding is echoed by Julian Huppert, the Liberal Democrats' candidate for Cambridge and co-author of the party's proposal for a digital bill of rights (which incidentally suggests a prison term for data offenders \u2013 does the government count?). \"Government departments don't understand data,\" he says, \"so there is a large job in educating them. A lot of things that go wrong are not malicious but because data is not treated seriously as an issue \u2013 and that needs addressing.\" He cites the care.data \"fiasco\" \u2013 the delay to the NHS plan to share data from patient records and the confusion over potential privacy breaches. This, he says, is why the UK needs not just its CDO but also a minister responsible for data, an idea which Boswarva thinks \"would be even more pointless.\" It could have some value in raising the political profile of data within central government, he adds but questions: \"Is that what we need?\" He is not alone. Labour's candidate for Newcastle Upon Tyne central, Chi Onwurah, also the architect of Labour's Digital Government Review is also sceptical of the CDO role but admits the country needs a \"data champion\" and \"not a technocrat.\" Onwurah's idea is for a full data review should Labour get into power and finding a \"people's data champion\", someone who can look after the interests of the public and ensure people get ownership of their own data. Isn't this what the CDO should be doing? Unfortunately due to purdah, Mike Bracken was unable to comment on his new role but did point us towards his blog, which outlines his key tasks. He certainly has his work cut out. Bracken's to-do list is extensive; transform the management and use of data within government, champion open data and open up existing government data wherever possible and drive the use of data as a tool for making decisions in government, including developing data skills and professional capacity. All good stuff. \"We should talk about data as a public asset,\" writes Bracken, but while his sentiment is widely supported by open data groups, you get an overwhelming feeling that he's going to be up against it when parliament reconvenes. No one doubts his ability but it's difficult to see how, given his many roles, he is going to be able to pull this off without getting bogged down in red tape and vested interests. \"It's a real challenge,\" comments Jeni Tennison, technical director at the Open Data Institute (ODI) and director of Open Addresses, the ODI's project to rebuild the sold-off Post Office address data file. \"We do need someone who can look after the way public data is handled. It's something we called for. There is a real requirement for coherence on data policy and education on data ownership so we believe the CDO is a good thing.\" If we had a CDO a year ago could we have avoided the loss of the Post Office data file? Can we ensure that Land Registry and NHS patient data will not be sold off and open to abuse? \"I'd never say it would never happen again,\" adds Tennison, \"but you'd hope that the CDO would be in a position to set up some checks and balances on public data asset ownership.\" Boswarva says that all public data assets should remain in public ownership, plain and simple, but concedes that some datasets are more vulnerable to privatisation than others, mentioning Land Registry data and other assets held by the data-rich Public Data Group members. So could the CDO have a role here? \"The best work on opening up public information over the past several years has been done within departments and agencies acting mainly on their own initiative,\" says Boswarva. \"Department for Transport, Health and the ONS are good examples. Cross-government policy, led by the Cabinet Office, has been less effective. GDS's cull of hundreds of government websites has effectively removed a vast amount of useful public information from the web.\" Throw in the fact that Data.gov.uk, which was launched in 2009, is still considered to be in beta and you start to see the scale of Bracken's task ahead. Is it a political priority? Absolutely not. You only have to search the manifestos for words such as privacy and public data to realise that (although the Liberal Democrats do score highest here). One thing is for certain \u2013 no one will be fighting this election on the strength of their digital and data policies. Post-election, getting the data issue higher up the political agenda will be Bracken's top priority but he will need help \u2013 lots of it. To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled 'Advertisement feature'. Find out more here.",
  "title": "Does the UK need a chief data officer?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "technology/government-digital-service",
    "technology/technology",
    "politics/general-election-2015",
    "politics/politics",
    "politics/labour",
    "business/post-office",
    "business/business",
    "technology/data-protection"
  ],
  "lead": "Such a role can help ensure public data is not abused, but without political support, the potential will remain unfulfilled ",
  "id": "media-network/2015/apr/23/uk-chief-data-officer-government-public-data",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}