{
  "content": "Not if it can help it; and probably not even if it can't. The search engine company is demanding that the US Department of Justice gets a court to enforce a request for one million random web addresses and records of all Google searches for a one-week period. The reason: to estimate how much pornography shows up when children go Googling. The Bush administration's demand seems to be part of an effort to revive the 1998 Child Online Protection Act (Copa), which makes it a crime for commercial distributors of \"material harmful to minors\" (deemed as material appealing to the \"prurient interest\", including female breasts) not to protect their sites from access by minors. However, Copa never took effect, and eventually the US Supreme Court ruled that it might be unconstitutional. Now, though, the Bush administration appears to be looking for fresh evidence that might suggest that filtering software, the preferred method suggested when Copa first failed the Supreme test, is less effective than before. That would mean showing that searches turn up porn sites not covered by filters. But the request, with which MSN, AOL and Yahoo complied (Ask Jeeves was not asked), has got privacy shivers running up and down the internet's collective spine. Google apparently feels the same way: Nicole Wong, an associate general counsel for the company, says the company will fight the government's effort vigorously. \"Google is not a party to this lawsuit, and the demand for the information is overreaching,\" she adds. As Danny Sullivan noted at his SearchEngineWatch blog: \"It's a stupid request, of course. It's sort of like the government asking a major car dealership to give you a list of random licence plate numbers rather than the Department of Motor Vehicles. Surely the government can generate its own list without forcing a private company to do this.\" But while the list of searches and websites might be a huge amount of data, it is unlikely that any of it would lead back to you, or indeed any individual who runs a search or owns a site. AOL, MSN and Yahoo were at pains to point out that no private data was passed on. At least, Yahoo did: \"We are rigorous defenders of our users' privacy. We did not provide any personal information in response to the Department of Justice's subpoena. In our opinion, this is not a privacy issue. We complied on a limited basis and did not provide any personally identifiable information,\" the company told Sullivan (http://tinyurl.com/dwlds). No date has been set for the hearing. \u00b7 If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails to tech@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Will Google tell George Bush about my web searches?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/searchengines",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/google",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "The Bush administration's request for one million random web addresses and records of all Google searches for a one-week period has got privacy shivers running up and down the internet's collective spine. By Charles Arthur",
  "id": "technology/2006/jan/26/searchengines.newmedia",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}