{
  "content": "To be fair to Axl Rose, he wasn't looking his best when, in 2010, a photograph of the Guns N' Roses frontman inspired the \"fat Axl Rose\" meme. You may only be hearing about the viral photos now that Rose is trying to get them removed from the internet (he might like to Google \"the Streisand effect\"). But does he have a case, and what can any of us do to rid the internet's toilet bowl of our photographic floaters? Most journalists are duty-bound to appear in embarrassing photographs. I have suffered huge indignities in pursuit of hard-hitting stories, including appearing in Lycra and leotards and topless on a bed of nails. My Google image search results are not pretty. I don't care, but let's say I did. Say I wanted, for example, to get rid of a photo of me throwing up while drink-driving eight years ago? The picture, taken outside a simulator designed to test the effects of driving the morning after the night before, pops up on the first page of my search results, linked to a stock-photography website (it's hard to imagine when it would be a useful illustration). Apart from anything, I was wearing terrible jeans, so I start Googling: \"How do I get rid of a bad photo of me?\" \"Do you own the copyright for the photo?\" asks Jeremy Harris, a partner at Kemp Little, a London law firm specialising in tech and digital media. I never did, and assume the stock photo website now does. Owning copyright, as Rose is claiming he does under the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act, makes things much easier. \"Once a hosting website has a notice of a copyright infringement, they have an obligation to take down the photo,\" Harris says. Knowing that the photo is not mine, I could ask politely for it to be removed. Beyond that, I could send a cease-and-desist letter, says Nick Aries, a partner at law firm Bird &amp; Bird. But a website might have compelling commercial or freedom-of-expression reasons to refuse to cease or desist. What then? \"You could argue that the photo is defamatory, but it happened \u2013 you did that,\" says Harris. \"If someone used the photograph to say: 'Look at Simon, he's a complete alcoholic and you can't trust his journalism,' then you might have a case.\" Yair Cohen, a coder turned social-media lawyer at Cohen Davis Solicitors, offers hope. He receives a growing number of requests for help from reality TV stars and adult performers who want to move on. \"Even though you're just a journalist, you have the right to a private life. We could use that, regardless of copyright, to have the image removed if not from the website itself then from all European searches,\" he says. The controversial EU \"right to be forgotten\" ruling allows anyone to ask Google to remove offending articles or other content from search results. It will still exist, but it will be much harder to find. (However, in the event of Brexit, the rule may no longer apply to the UK.) In the end, I don't need to go this far. It turns out the page on which the photo appears no longer exists; the photo only exists in Google searches. As a Google account holder, I can ask for it be removed. At the time of writing, my request is pending.",
  "title": "What does it take to get embarrassing photos taken off the internet?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "music/gunsnroses"
  ],
  "lead": "Axl Rose wants Google to remove images of him looking overweight from its search results. Here's how non-celebrities plagued by dodgy pictures could follow his lead",
  "id": "world/shortcuts/2016/jun/07/what-does-it-take-to-get-embarrassing-photos-taken-off-the-internet",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}