{
  "content": "Carter-Ruck Cloggers 0, Guardian Rangers 1 (or possibly 21, since this was a big, big victory) in the Trafigura premiership. And three points from press freedom's match of the month. One, as the Guardian's triumphant Alan Rusbridger noted, is that it wasn't a win for press battalions or nippy legions of Twitterers alone. You needed the resources of a determined paper \u2013 and, in parallel, a dogged BBC \u2013 to pursue the toxic case of Africans falling violently ill in the Ivory Coast. And you needed an elliptical front page story in print about a gagged Commons question to set the blogosphere buzzing. Two, the ghost of Spycatcher is finally laid. Those of us (including Donald Trelford here at the Observer) who ploughed along the exhausting, hugely expensive legal trail \u2013 beginning in 1987, when Peter Wright published his book; ending in 1991, when the European Court of Human Rights kicked Margaret Thatcher's arguments into touch \u2013 always knew that trying to stop a demonstrably important story being published in one spot of our globalised world was dotty. Trafigura dances on the grave of Mrs T's delusion. What, a ban? Turn to Guido Fawkes' blog (or many other sources) on Wednesday morning and you've got the full picture. This is the essence of media freedom, the right and need of the public to be informed. It's sometimes messy in digispace (no, Gordon Brown isn't on painkillers), but it's worth vigorously defending (as Vietnam, in the shadow of Beijing, sends eight of its bloggers to prison). Point three, however, extends rather than closes the debate. Britain's tight little libel-cum-privacy bar is a laughing stock worldwide. Even Arnie's California terminated its reach last week. Even Jack Straw is trying to close down some of its overripe practices. But if a fusillade of Tweets can make a mockery of the majesty of the law, don't we need fresh international agreements to bring some majesty back? Isn't the very success of the internet here self-defeating? No, because you sink in a mire of repression down that path. But watch the sludge begin to ooze already as, just as the Guardian was winning its fight, America's Federal Trade Commission unveiled mandatory guidelines for bloggers declaring that, if they were plugging a product and had some freebie in return, they must declare it online. A small step for straight dealing, but a giant jump into the bureaucracy of tangled silence. Transparency United 1, Letitallhangout Wanderers 0.",
  "title": "Carter-Ruck's defeat holds some lessons on press freedom",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/trafigura-probo-koala",
    "media/media",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/twitter",
    "law/human-rights",
    "politics/freedomofinformation",
    "world/freedom-of-speech",
    "law/law",
    "business/business",
    "media/social-media",
    "law/carter-ruck"
  ],
  "lead": "The Trafigura fight was won by an alliance of print, broadcasting and the blogosphere",
  "id": "media/2009/oct/18/trafigura-fight-press-freedom-victory",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}