{
  "content": "The \"internet of things\" is turning into Silicon Valley's latest mania. At first glance, it is a trend with great appeal, enough to become something more than a trend and a true revolution: a world in which everything we touch and use has an embedded intelligence and memory of its own, and all of it is connected by way of digital networks. What's missing from this rosy scenario? Plenty \u2013 because security and privacy seem to be mostly an afterthought as we embed and use technology in our physical devices. Which means the internet of things could easily turn into a horror show. Much of the coverage of the IoT (as some abbreviate it) has been of the \"gee-whiz, isn't this great?\" variety, and why not? The possibilities are truly dazzling. The IoT would encompass our homes, our cars, our offices, our agricultural fields and more. Over time, most internet traffic would consist of one machine talking to another, handling micro-tasks that could collectively add up to vast efficiencies and convenience for humans. In one example I heard, a self-driving car would pick you up at the office \u2013 assuming you're still employed and not serving your robot overlord). Then, on the way, you let your house's thermostat know it's time to warm or cool the living room. Pretty cool, right? Except, well, the potential for problems has been obvious for some time. The Stuxnet worm, which the US and Israel used to disable Iranian centrifuges, was introduced via flash drive. Other similar malware uses networks to infect industrial targets, which, as we've learned, are all too vulnerable. And as we start connecting everything we touch to networks, the risks will rise by orders of magnitude \u2013 especially as criminals and governments infect and alter everyday devices. In some ways, the horror show has already started. Aren't you just thrilled to know that smart folks have already figured out ways to remotely set the controls for the heart of a self-driving car? Or the video monitor you normally use to keep an eye on your baby in her crib? And, as Wired recently reported, for example, medical gear in hospitals is stunningly easy to hack. A team hired to probe vulnerabilities discovered... [D]rug infusion pumps \u2013 for delivering morphine drips, chemotherapy and antibiotics\u2013that can be remotely manipulated to change the dosage doled out to patients; Bluetooth-enabled defibrillators that can be manipulated to deliver random shocks to a patient's heart or prevent a medically needed shock from occurring; X-rays that can be accessed by outsiders lurking on a hospital's network; temperature settings on refrigerators storing blood and drugs that can be reset, causing spoilage; and digital medical records that can be altered to cause physicians to misdiagnose, prescribe the wrong drugs or administer unwarranted care. What makes all this possible is what other smart people have been noting for years: as software has become a more and more important component of hardware, physical devices are increasingly malleable, because software is a set of instructions that can be changed. Your mobile phone still camera, and your video \"camera\", are still mostly comprised of software \u2013 apps that operate the sensors built into the devices. And app developers can send you what amounts to an entirely different camera in the form of a software update. The camera can also be downgraded, removing features, or, if a malicious third party gets sufficient access, the app can be turned against you, secretly taking pictures and/or videos and collecting data. This is why people inside and outside of Silicon Valley and its newfound obsession with things should be talking much more, right now, about how we can make this stuff more secure, and not just from criminals. Do you fully trust Google, the new owner of the Nest smart thermostat and who knows what else in the future, or do you trust all the other companies collecting highly personal data about what you do in your private life? And even if you do have considerable trust in Google's current management, you must know that its current policies won't bind its boardroom 20 years from now. Law tends to lag behind reality in the tech sphere, and this is no exception. The Obama administration is at least paying attention \u2013 as a new White House report on \"Big Data\" demonstrates \u2013 but, curiously (or not), the report ignores government surveillance and spying and minimizes much of the damage we could face from the burgeoning data collection by companies and others. But the report does at least mention the enormous amount of additional data that the internet of things will collect over time, and some of the troubling questions that such collection raises. The technology industry loathes regulation, in part because of the knowledge that government interference can stifle innovation and the speed to market. In this case, however, the tech world is practically begging for regulation. Next week, at the \"Solid\" conference in San Francisco (subtitled \"Software/Hardware/Everywhere\"), some of the leaders of the emerging IoT will tell us (mostly) how great all this is. But if they want to avoid innovation-stifling interference, they'll have to do what the internet industry failed to do in its own rise: build in security and privacy to the products, not bolt them on later. For once, they need to get this right the first time.",
  "title": "In the future, the robots may control you \u2013 and Silicon Valley will control them | Dan Gillmor",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet-of-things",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/robots",
    "technology/stuxnet",
    "technology/silicon-valley",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Dan Gillmor:  Welcome to the horror show that is the 'internet of things' \u2013 hyper-intelligent software, vulnerable hardware ... and a whole new level of privacy invasion",
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/may/13/internet-of-things-software-privacy-silicon-valley",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}