{
  "content": "Certain sections of the web are growing impatient with Frank Ocean. On his last album, Channel Orange (the Guardian's pick of 2012), the R&amp;B artist depicted suburban privilege, explored the inequalities facing black Americans and boldly delved into his own inner workings. It's an album so adored that a simple blogpost with the date \"#july2015\" caused mania among his fans back in April. With that vague deadline passing with no follow-up album, the reaction has spanned the five stages of Twitter-vented grief: denial, anger, bargaining, depression and, finally, acceptance and solace through the sharing of memes. Rather than issuing any apologies, excuses or blaming the record label, the relative silence surrounding the delay has only added to the excitement and intrigue. It is rumoured to be titled Boys Don't Cry (possibly a homage to the Cure, or perhaps named after the cult trans biopic of the same name). Ocean also publishes a magazine of the same title. Amid all the furore, Ocean has been toying with fans: inserting clips of Dutch cartoons into the source code of his website to goad amateur hackers, uploading empty audio sets to Soundcloud like some sort of a virtual treasure hunt and posting riddles on Tumblr: \"Ok, if one person managed to stop themselves from spinning this morning \u2026 While the earth and everything keeps going \u2026 Would that person then get smashed into by the objects around her and cause massive destruction upon impact? Or is that poor physics?\" he wrote, then added: \"I know, I know \u2026 Quit asking dumb ass questions to the internet and drop your album. Haha.\" Frank's not the only one getting in on the fun, either, with Ocean's family offering up some free PR. His brother, Ryan Breaux, recently claimed the album had surfaced, but it was just a rickroll. Ocean's mother, meanwhile, has been reassuring impatient fans like a parent pestered on a long drive to Disneyland. Despite all the speculation, fans have little idea what to actually expect from the release. There have been snippets of new material over the last three years \u2013 the demo of a song titled Memrise; the soppy acoustic number Eyes Like Sky; live previews of tracks reportedly called Summer Remains, It's All Good, Brave and Feel California. However, Ocean claims to have finished the record over a year ago, so whether any of these will actually feature on the final tracklisting, or if the musician has started from scratch, is anybody's guess. Compare this to the current status of Kanye West's upcoming album. Up to 10 possible tracks likely to feature on Swish have already surfaced online in some form, leaving even the most dedicated Ye fan jaded and past caring. Ocean quit Twitter shortly after the release of his last LP, and unusually for a major star, does not have an official Facebook page, so the rumour mill has been in overdrive. Everyone from Rick Rubin, James Blake, Lil B, Pharrell, King Krule, Danger Mouse and even Depeche Mode have been linked with the project, none of whom are totally out of the question for an artist who collaborated with both Diplo and members of the Clash on a track just last year. Given that the Beach Boys' hip-hop loving Brian Wilson recently snubbed Ocean for his latest album because he \"wanted to rap, not sing\", perhaps his focus will be more on rap than R&amp;B vocals. The album, which was partially recorded at Abbey Road, is also said to be inspired by architecture, and comes with a copy of Ocean's magazine. There may be a number of diss tracks too, as Ocean has recently been involved in various feuds with Chris Brown, the Eagles, Miguel, Russell Simmons (via his dad) and Mexican food chain Chipotle. It's hard to get an album launch right these days. We've seen everything from annoying social media campaigns to trailer videos for trailer videos and even some not-so surprising surprise albums. But Frank Ocean has built the anticipation for this beyond breaking point. Take note, everyone. That said, drop your bloody album already, Frank...",
  "title": "Rickrolls, rumours and riddles: the hype behind Frank Ocean's new album",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "music/frank-ocean",
    "music/r-and-b",
    "music/music",
    "culture/culture",
    "music/popandrock",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Frank Ocean has missed his July deadline for his new LP, and impatient fans are even chasing his mum on Twitter for news. So, what can we expect from the acclaimed R&amp;B star's overdue work? ",
  "id": "music/2015/aug/06/frank-ocean-new-album-hype-rumours-fans-boys-dont-cry",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}