{
  "content": "The Social Network, David Fincher's zeitgeist-tapping tale of Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, has further stamped its mark on the Oscar race after topping polls held by three influential critics' societies at the weekend. The Los Angeles Film Critics Association, the New York Film Critics Online and the Boston Society of Film Critics all named the film as this year's best. It also merited a mention in the AFI's annual list of the year's top 10 films. All four bodies are considered valuable arbiters of Oscars success in February, and taken together they posit The Social Network as a clear frontrunner. The film also earned Fincher best director awards from all three critics' groups, though the LA circle also named Olivier Assayas jointly in that category for his film Carlos. Aaron Sorkin took best screenplay from all three groups, while Jesse Eisenberg was named best actor by the Boston critics. The AFI's list, which is always released in no particular order of ranking, cited The Social Network alongside Black Swan, The Fighter, Inception, The Kids Are All Right, 127 Hours, The Town, Toy Story 3, True Grit and Winter's Bone as the year's best films. There were no clear frontrunners in other categories such as best actor, however, though films that have been picking up strong ratings from critics over the past few months continued to fare well. Britain's Colin Firth was the LA critics' choice for his performance as King George VI in The King's Speech, while the online New Yorkers plumped for James Franco in Danny Boyle's 127 Hours. The latter is not to be confused with the New York Critics' Circle, which announces its winners today. Natalie Portman was named best actress by the New York and Boston groups for her turn as a troubled ballerina in Black Swan, while the LA critics went for Kim Hye-ja in the South Korean film Mother, about a woman's search for the killer who framed her son for murder. Next year's Academy Awards will take place on 27 February 2011 at the Kodak Theatre in Los Angeles. Franco and Anne Hathaway have been named joint hosts.",
  "title": "Critics give The Social Network a leg up the Oscars ladder",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "film/oscars-2011",
    "film/oscars",
    "film/film",
    "culture/awards-and-prizes",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/mark-zuckerberg",
    "film/jesse-eisenberg"
  ],
  "lead": "David Fincher's film about Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg tops polls for three influential critics' societies",
  "id": "film/2010/dec/13/critics-social-network-oscars",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}