{
  "content": "Facebook is formalising its burgeoning role as a PR and marketing medium by hiring a US talent agent to advise music, sport and show business stars on how to utilise the social network and Instagram. Glenn Miller, a creative executive at the Los Angeles-based Creative Artists Agency, has been appointed Facebook's strategic partnerships lead for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. In the newly-created role, he will advise public figures in the entertainment, lifestyle and sporting sectors about how they can best utilise Facebook and Instagram to connect with their fans. The appointment of Miller, who starts immediately, mirrors a similar executive appointment the social network made in the US. Miller has already worked with Facebook on an ad hoc basis, overseeing a Facebook chat event with Andy Murray following his Wimbledon victory, in which Murray added 430,000 fans to his page, and the posting of \"off duty\" images of One Direction on Instagram. Specifically, Miller will now work with the company's global team which provides agents and talent management companies with the local knowledge they need to help public figures connect with their fans. Miller said: \"Facebook has always been about connecting people with what matters to them and people are using Facebook to share their likes and voice their opinions on music, sports, TV shows and the latest news. My role will drive Facebook's strategy for public figures across EMEA, unlock their conversations that are already happening and encourage best practice for those public figures that want to maximise their use of Facebook.\" The appointment of Miller comes as Jessie J takes part in a Facebook event on Thursday in which she reveals the title of her next single and perform a song from her new album, part of an initiative to help public figures on the social network create improved content for their audiences. The event takes place at Facebook's London offices and will also see Jessie J answer questions from fans. \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@theguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\". \u2022 To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook.",
  "title": "Facebook seeks to enhance role as PR and marketing tool for celebrities",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Glenn Miller, a US talent agent, has been hired to advise stars on how to use the social network to connect with their fans. By John Reynolds",
  "id": "media/mediamonkeyblog/2013/sep/26/facebook-enhance-pr-marketing-tool-celebrities",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}