{
  "content": "Today's extract from the updated edition of The phone-hacking scandal: journalism on trial,* is devoted to a chapter written by Ray Snoddy, one of the most experienced of media commentators. He condemns the practice of phone hacking by the News of the World but asks: why did we have a judicial inquiry under Lord Justice Leveson? Then he provides an answer... The setting up of the Leveson inquiry was an outrageous piece of political expediency by prime minister David Cameron \u2013 a manoeuvre straight out of the PR crisis management handbook. When everything appears to be hitting the fan, do something dramatic such as setting up as wide-ranging an inquiry as possible, which happily will not report for ages. You might think, however, that accusing a politician of political expediency is a bit like observing that the tide comes in twice a day. Cameron compounded his sins by also apparently prejudging the outcome of the inquiry by describing the Press Complaints Commission (PCC) as a \"failed\" organisation. Save in one respect \u2013 dealing with illegal phone hacking \u2013 the PCC is not a failed organisation. It is one that has worked tirelessly to get fast free redress for those who have been subject to inaccurate or intrusive reporting without reasonable cause and a strong case can be made that, on the whole, press behaviour has improved over the past 20 years. There have been disgraceful exceptions, such as the contempt of court and libels committed in the Jo Yeates murder case as with Madeleine McCann. It is true that the PCC was not set up to investigate criminal behaviour, and citizens always have the right to go to the courts to seek redress. It is also true that it might have been less unquestioning in believing the \"one rogue reporter\" story put about by News International. But then again the PCC was certainly misled by News International and the police. The danger is not that Lord Justice Leveson is a lackey who will produce a preordained outcome. Quite the reverse. The problem is that the inquiry was so widely framed that there is no way of predicting what the result will be \u2013 how far it will reach. In a year or two's time we could be contemplating once again the law of unintended consequences \u2013 considerable harm, innocently done. The problems that all such commissions and inquiries have faced over the past 70 years are very easy to identify. There is no agreed definition of what the public interest actually is \u2013 nor do I suspect can there be. Was it in the public interest for the Daily Telegraph to publish details of MPs' expenses even though the information material was undoubtedly stolen and sold for money? Most people would probably say yes. But the same newspaper sent young female reporters to Vince Cable's constituency office and discovered the not uninteresting information that Cable was completely biased against Rupert Murdoch. Were the journalists justified on public interest grounds? The PCC ruled no because it was a fishing expedition. The two examples illustrate very well how finely balanced some of these judgements actually are. And then we have to come to terms with privacy and the almost terminal gulf between the two conflicting articles of human rights legislation \u2013 promising at the same time the right to privacy and a family life and the public's right to know. Call me biased if you like but it is my firm belief that the right to know should, on the whole \u2013 and weasel words yet again suggest the difficulty \u2013 take precedence over the right to privacy. Yes, you might say, but where does sleazy tabloid kiss-and-tell stories fit into this high-minded scenario? I am increasingly convinced they do, and in a quite important way. I have two grounds for arguing this: one practical and the other \u2013 for want of a better word \u2013 moral. In the internet age protecting most forms of privacy is simply impossible and courts will find enforcement increasingly difficult. This former Financial Times journalist is therefore going to take a difficult course by suggesting that those who earn vast sums of money in the public domain, trade off a pure image and can be seen as role models for the young, should be exposed \u2013 by currently legal means \u2013 when there is a vast gulf between that image and their actual behaviour. When such people go to court citing privacy what they are actually trying to do is prevent behaviour which they clearly are not in the slightest proud of becoming public knowledge, often with clear economic implications for them. In the internet age such information will become available somewhere. In the end such fine decisions on where the balance between what should be reported and what not is best decided by a body of independent people with an agreed code of practice that looks very much like the PCC, though a number of obvious improvements can be made. There is a further issue that Lord Justice Leveson must manage to get his mind around - the economics of the national newspaper industry. The \"digital pennies\" generated by newspapers do not even begin to pay for original hard news. Meanwhile, paper sales continue their apparently inevitable decline, putting pressure on finances at the more traditional end of the business. The logic should be clear: Leveson should avoid doing anything that will further damage the economics of newspaper publishing \u2013 damage that would inevitably follow a new round of sanitisation which some believe has already begun. It is increasingly clear that Lord Justice Leveson's main task has already been achieved. The misdeeds of the press, politicians and the police have been remorselessly exposed. We can now assume that phone hacking, seriously bribing of the police and a far too cosy relationship between newspaper proprietors and politicians are things of the past. When you clear away all the undergrowth there remains only one relatively modest thing for Lord Justice Leveson to do. He has to recommend the creation of a new regulatory body for the press. Not a tiny task but surely one that is far from insurmountable. On Monday: Ivor Gaber dissects what he calls \"a campaign of vilification\" against a university professor by the Daily Mail and its Sunday sister *The phone hacking scandal: journalism on trial, second and updated edition, edited by Richard Lance Keeble and John Mair, will be published by Abramis on 17 September. Available at a special Media Guardian price of \u00a315 from richard@arimapublishing.co.uk",
  "title": "Hacking book: Leveson needs to understand that the PCC did not fail",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "media/pcc",
    "law/lord-justice-leveson",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/dailytelegraph",
    "politics/mps-expenses",
    "politics/vincentcable",
    "media/rupert-murdoch",
    "media/financialtimes",
    "media/privacy",
    "technology/internet",
    "politics/davidcameron"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade presents a further extract from the updated edition of The phone-hacking scandal: journalism on trial. It's by the former Financial Times media correspondent Ray Snoddy",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2012/sep/07/leveson-inquiry-pcc",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}