{
  "content": "Activision is set to launch a new social gaming platform for fans of its multi-million selling Call of Duty titles. The long-expected service, named Call of Duty Elite, will feature detailed multiplayer gaming statistics, community elements and user-generated content sharing. Downloadable map packs and other similar offerings for all subsequent Call of Duty game releases will be included in the monthly subscription fee. Some elements of Elite will be free to all Call of Duty gamers, but Activision is yet announce the specific details. A public beta will begin in the summer, with a launch following in autumn. The developer of Elite, Beachhead Studios, will manage the running of the service, and will apparently seek to evolve it on a continuing basis. Vitally, basic multiplayer gaming will remain free of charge, despite fears that Activision would seek to monetise online play. Introducing the service at a press conference in London, Mark Cox, European digital marketing director for Call of Duty, said: \"Elite was built from the ground up to change the way our consumers experience multiplayer in all current and future Call of Duty games. We're bringing a new level of social and community interaction to the franchise. \"In the always on, always connected gaming world, the innovation in Elite is just as important as advancements in graphics and gameplay. It is one of our most ambitious and exciting undertakings.\" Elite is essentially a thorough online matchmaking service, combined with elements of FaceBook, YouTube and the \"Autolog\" in-game social networking concept developed by EA for its Need for Speed titles. Players will create a single Elite profile, which then unites their experiences in all CoD titles. The service will be fully integrated into Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, where users will be able to access a dedicated Elite area, via their console, mobile or PC. There will be some limited integration with last year's hit, Call of Duty: Black Ops, possibly via a downloadable update, but details are yet to be confirmed. The service is split into four separate sections: Career, Connect, Compete and Improve. Career is essentially an extended version of Black Ops' Combat Record section, providing a wealth of statistics on the player's Call of Duty multiplayer career \u2013 including summaries of experience points (XP) and kill-to-death ratios, recent matches and personal bests, as well as a personal leaderboard tracker, weapons performance figures and a theatre section to store your in-game videos and screenshots (as well as watching the most highly-viewed and/or highly rated content from the rest of the CoD community). Naturally, users are able to compare their career stats with those of their friends, and to actively track and monitor the stats of key rivals. This section also contains intriguing \"heatmaps\" of recent online matches, which show the areas of the maps you visited most as well as the location of each death and kill. A timeline displaying when every deadly encounter took place during that match, and the weapons involved, runs beneath \u2013 perfect for those who really love statistically analysing their performances. \"Connect\" is an extension of the basic matchmaking services that allow players to get online and find other people to play against. Users will be able to build playlists of possible competitors as well as searching for and joining FaceBook-style groups of players with similar outside interests. During the Elite reveal event in London, Dan Bunting, the producer of Call of Duty: Black Ops, demonstrated the feature by inputting the word \"photography\" into the Connect search window: Elite then brought up a Photography group for him to join and play against. Apparently, if the interest you enter isn't catered for, Elite will establish a new group \u2013 and each group has its own leaderboards, stats and a dedicated comments section. In terms of competition, the implementation of Elite into Modern warfare 3 will provide \"robust\" support for private clans. \"In addition, we're going to be integrating your Elite group and clan identities, and your affiliations, in really powerful new ways \u2013 we'll show you more about that later in the year,\" said Jamie Berger, Activision's vice-president of digital. The third area of the service, \"Compete\", provides access to a programme of prize events open to all Elite users. There are various options aimed at differing levels of player expertise, from Deathmatch tournaments to newcomer options such as \"Bring The Heat\", in which participants compete to take the best in-game screenshots. Apparently, the event lists will be continually updated with new challenges, and prizes can range from in-game badges to iPads. Modern Warfare 3 is set to extend the programme with group vs group, clan vs clan and intra-clan competitions and leagues. Lastly, the \"Improve\" section provides a series of tips and guides to elements of each CoD title. There are top-down high-resolution plans of each multiplayer game map, showing objective locations, while weapon overviews provide tips, stats and video guides created by veteran players. Perks, kill streaks and secondary weapons are also included. \"When we launch MW3, Elite is going to connect into the collective intelligence and wisdom of our entire community to provide expert guidance across all aspects of the game,\" said Berger. \"As an elite member you're going to be able to leverage all the community statistics as well as the individual wisdom of the best players from throughout the game on any game topic. Social and community innovation, continuously evolving \u2013 that is our service vision for Elite.\" The driving force behind Elite is clear \u2013 the desire to gain revenue from the vast numbers of gamers who regularly play Call of Duty titles online for free. According to Activision, 20 million people play Call of Duty online every month \u2013 more than seven million every day. This number represents a vast source of untapped income \u2013 and in an era of declining retail sales for games, identifying new streams of digital revenue is becoming vitally important. The problem is, attempting to install a subscription charge on online multiplayer activity would meet with massive resistance from gamers, who have always enjoyed free access to online functionality with shooter games. Activision's compromise has clearly been to add value to that core service. The key question is whether the publisher will be able to attract a broader audience to Elite than the hardcore online gaming minority, who will eat up the access to detailed stats. Many of those 20 million players will be satisfied with simply popping online for a few hours a week for some anonymous blasting. The tutorial elements have clearly been included to appeal to the mainstream user-base, but there are plenty of tips and tactics available for free at the many Call of Duty fansites. The community elements are interesting, and may well help interested newcomers form more of an attachment with the online experience. But again, we're used to getting our social connectivity features for free. Price, for many, will be the deciding factor. At the London press demo, Berger claimed that Elite would be less expensive than any other comparable service, but it's unclear which service he had in mind, as this is something of a unique proposition. Five dollars a month is a figure that journalists and pundits were batting around when the event finished; certainly anything more would be a considerable gamble. Now that Activision has drawn back from charging for online play, or even charging for a premium version of online play with less crowded servers, it must prove why we need to pay to get to know our opponents, our game environments and our statistics. Certainly, DLC is an enticing part of the deal, but over the course of the year it may only cover a fraction of the subscription outlay. Call of Duty gamers are willing to invest many hours into their casual relationship with the series \u2013 but how many are ready to take that love affair to the next level?",
  "title": "Call of Duty Elite 'social service' revealed by Activision",
  "lead": "Keith Stuart: Activision announces multiplayer subscription service for its Call of Duty franchise, but will gamers be willing to pay to fight their friends online?",
  "tags": [
    "technology/games",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "technology/gameculture",
    "technology/call-of-duty",
    "technology/activision-blizzard",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/gamesblog/2011/may/31/call-of-duty-elite-subscription-service",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}