{
  "content": "A young British entrepreneur has died while snowboarding in the Swiss Alps despite a mountain rescue operation played out live on the social networking site Twitter. Rob Williams, 29, co-founder of a music company with a multimillion-pound turnover, became separated from a group of fellow entrepreneurs while skiing in blizzard conditions in the resort of Verbier and fell 20 metres down a cliff on to rocks. Other members of the group put out a request on Twitter asking for the mobile phone number of Williams and his childhood friend and business partner, Jason Tavaria, who had also become separated from the group, in the hope of tracking them down. Rescue helicopters were unable to land in the area because of atrocious weather and search teams set out on foot to find the pair. Tavaria and Williams were on holiday in a group that included Michelle Dewberry, winner of the second series of TV show The Apprentice. Dewberry launched the online rescue on Twitter on Monday afternoon when she wrote: \"2 of our ski party been missing since 4pm. Conditions terrible. 1 guy found but trapped. 20 man team searching for other.\" Another member of the group, Alex Hoye, sent out a Twitter message appealing for Williams's phone number. \"Urgent: if anyone has or knows Rob Williams of Dolphin Music's mobile, please send. Mtn rescue in progress.\" An hour later his tweet reported that someone had provided Williams's number: \"Rob's number rec'd via Twitter. Jason now found using GPS/Google maps and phone; still working on finding Rob.\" Another entrepreneur, Joshua March, recorded how he used Google maps to determine Tavaria and Williams's locations. It appears the pair veered off piste accidently, unable to see in the white-out that descended on the mountain. Tavaria, 29, had sent his friends and rescue teams a GPS signal from his iPhone to give his exact location. He was rescued six hours later. The search teams found Williams seven hours after he went missing, by which time he had died. The discovery of Williams's body was reported on the Twitter site, which was flooded with tributes to the entrepreneur. Much of the unfolding drama was reported on a technology website TechCrunch UK. The site's editor, Mike Butcher, posted a series of messages. He wrote: \"I just got off the phone to one member of the trip. They said, 'Everyone literally said they'd just had the best time on the trip. And then it went straight to the opposite. We are all in shock.'\" Williams and Tavaria became friends at school in St Albans, Hertfordshire, and set up Dolphin Music, a musical instrument internet outlet, in 1999 while they were still students at Liverpool University. Dolphin Music had sales in excess of \u00a39.2m in 2007, when it was ranked Britain's 11th fastest-growing company. In a separate incident last week, two British tourists fell to their deaths in the French Alps. Richard Ryan, 27, of York, and Christopher Lockwood, 28, of Leeds, died in the resort of Les Deux Alpes. A tragedy in tweets: the messages Michelle Dewberry was on holiday in Verbier when her first messages led, over a few hours, to a mountain tragedy being played out on Twitter. Here are some of the messages. Michelle Dewberry 2 of our ski party been missing since 4pm. Conditions terrible. 1 guy found but trapped. 20 man team searching for other. Alex Hoye Urgent: If anyone has or knows Rob Williams of Dolphin Music's mobile, please send. Mtn rescue in progress. Alex Hoye Rob's number rec'd via Twitter; Jason now found using GPS/Google maps &amp; phone (joshmarch org'd); still working on finding Rob. Joshua March Phew. just got GPS co-ordinates from the Dolphin guys iphones (thank you Google maps!), passed on to ski patrol. Alex Hoye 20 rescuers and dogs searching for Rob - though some confusions as Jason was stuck, had Rob phone. What They used Twitter to find someone's cell phone? So what? They could have used anything to find the guys cell number. Mike Butcher Rob Williams of Dolphin Music dies in Alps skiing accident. Michael Hannah RIP Rob Williams, prays are with family. Moment of silence (no tweets for the next hour). \u2022 This article was amended on Wednesday 4 March 2009. Alex Hoye, not Hoyle, and Joshua March, not Marsh, were involved in the search for Rob Williams and Jason Tavaria. This has been corrected.",
  "title": "Friends use Twitter to try to save entrepreneur killed in Alps",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world",
    "travel/travel"
  ],
  "lead": "Urgent appeal for Rob William's mobile number sent out on site after he was separated from friends during blizzard",
  "id": "technology/2009/mar/04/twitter-death-entrepreneur-rob-william",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}