{
  "content": "What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life? This is going to sound bad, but I have a Range Rover with air-conditioned seats. It's literally the best thing that's ever happened. It's warm in winter, cool in summer \u2013 perfect. Hot summer's day, you're driving in the car, you've got the air conditioning blasting \u2013 but it's not getting everywhere. The small of your back gets sweaty, which is not what you want on long drives, so air-conditioned seats are the best thing ever. When was the last time you used it, and what for? On the way here this morning, to heat my ass. What additional features would you add if you could? There's nothing \u2013 they are literally the most perfect thing in the world. But there's other technology that I use an awful lot. I'm a big fan of Twitter as a piece of technology \u2013 as a thing, I just think it's brilliant. It really suits me, the idea of throwing jokes out there and just seeing what people think. You get immediate feedback \u2013 it very similar, technology-wise, to stand-up. What always frustrates you about technology in general? I find the best way to avoid frustration is to buy what your friend who is good with technology already has. That's the secret. If your mate who's good with phones has the iPhone 4S, get it a week after him and he'll tell you how to use it. Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated? Yeah, there was a DVD recorder I had, that you could use to record to DVD from TV \u2013 it was the fiddliest thing in the world. I think Sky+ has absolutely nailed it. Any other recording device now just seems so: \"Oh, I've got to put a thing in, and then do a thing, and then set this up, then put a timer on ...\" When you work like I do \u2013 I'm out every night \u2013 I wouldn't see any television if I couldn't record it. If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be? Follow the herd. Don't read a review and buy the one where they go: \"It's not as popular, but it's just as good and it's a little bit cheaper.\" Do the obvious thing, and don't overthink it. With technology, follow the herd is quite a good move, because you're spending a lot of money on the stuff. There's nothing the matter with following the herd. Everyone else had got an iPhone \u2013 yeah, get an iPhone. \"I'm going to get an Android phone, it's better.\" Is it? Looks like a piece of shit. It's got two apps \u2013 brilliant. Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd? I like new technology. I don't know how it works, and sometimes it takes me a while to get used to it, but I'm very enthusiastic. What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned? I've got an outdoor TV \u2013 it's an Aqualite. I mean, c'mon, how good's that? Mac or PC, and why? Mac, because I'm not a fucking idiot. Because a computer is more than work. The Mac is more fun; there's something about it, it has a little bit of personality. They're just fabulous. Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase? Yeah, big fan of DVDs. I like shopping for DVDs, I like going to HMV and going through the rack. I download a lot of films to watch, and rent films from iTunes, which is lovely, but there's something very nice about going to a store and buying something \u2013 the immediacy of having it in your hand. The last DVD I bought was probably one of the comedy ones, one of the stand-ups for Christmas. I think it was Peter Kay, because I didn't get to see the live show. Robot butlers \u2013 a good idea or not? You've seen Terminator, right? You've seen RoboCop \u2013 you know what can go wrong. We can't let this happen. It's why Skynet must not be allowed to flourish \u2026 or Microsoft, as I believe they're otherwise known. What piece of technology would you most like to own? Here's the thing \u2013 I'm a big fan of Sky+. Imagine if Sky+ did a portable player that you could plug into the front of your Sky box and it downloaded your Sky box to a portable thing, like a laptop. If you've got a good internet connection you can watch your Sky remotely, but if they just had like a DVD thing that you could watch what you had taped at home when you're away. Because I spend my life away from home and the best thing about getting home is when you go, \"Oh, I've got my shows taped that I can watch\", and you feel like you're at home. If you could take that with you, that would be awesome.",
  "title": "Jimmy Carr: 'Air-conditioned seats are the best thing ever'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "culture/jimmy-carr",
    "technology/gadgets",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/motoring",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/iphone"
  ],
  "lead": "Celebrity squares: Funny-man Jimmy Carr loves nothing more than a warm bum when driving around in the depths of winter",
  "id": "technology/2011/dec/02/jimmy-carr-celebrity-squares",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}