{
  "content": "Yesterday, at the end of Radio 1's official charts rundown, the UK learned which single would hold the title of Christmas No 1, with a complete lack of surprise that it turned out to be X Factor winner Sam Bailey's Skyscraper. For many years, this was the defining moment of pop's year \u2013 the biggest song, at the biggest time of year for shifting records, in the days when sales were king, airplay was queen and live gigs were a loss leader to help shift records or get them played on the radio. In those days, it was easy to assess who the year's biggest star had been \u2013 you simply looked at the list of the year's bestselling records. That's no longer the case, when even the official chart itself is just one way of assessing a pop star's popularity across the year. Now there are end-of-year charts from streaming sites, from download sites, from online retailers, as well as song identification services. Then there are live revenues and endorsement deals to take into account. By the \"old\" ways of measuring success, based on Official Charts Company data, Robin Thicke's Blurred Lines has been the biggest single of the year so far in the UK (selling 1.44m copies), followed by Get Lucky by Daft Punk (1.28m). Emeli Sand\u00e9's Our Version of Events has been the biggest-selling album by an artist (as opposed to compilations such as the Now! series \u2013 Now 85! is Amazon's top seller of the year), just as it was last year. But look away from record sales, and the picture starts to change. On streaming services, the Official Charts Company reports that Get Lucky was the runaway success of the year, with Pompeii by Bastille second and Blurred Lines third, showing download success and streaming success do not overlap totally. The income from streaming pales in comparison with that from downloads and CD sales, however. Mobile song identification service Shazam is a strong barometer for breaking success \u2013 Blurred Lines was tagged more than 17.8m times and Avicii's Wake Me Up 14.7m times worldwide this year. The latter was also the most \"Shazamed\" track in the UK in 2013. On radio, Get Lucky was comfortably the biggest airplay hit in the UK this year. Data from Radiomonitor shows it has been played more than 135,000 times across 294 stations. Justin Timberlake's Mirrors was second (more than 117,000 plays across 213 station) and Blurred Lines was third (107,000 plays across 239 stations). However, reach is one thing, revenue another. In a reversal of the old model, the serious money is now made not from recordings, but from playing live. In 2013 Bon Jovi were at the top of the leaderboard, grossing $205m across 90 shows globally according to Billboard magazine. The Rolling Stones were sixth, grossing $126m , but they were making more per show, averaging $5.47m at each of their 23 shows compared with $2.27m a show for Bon Jovi. The move away from CDs and records may have hit recorded music income, but it has created new channels and ways to reach audiences that provide yet more means of measuring success. Facebook has more than 1bn regular users and Rihanna is the most \"liked\" pop star there (81m fans, followed by Eminem with 78m) even though she spends most of her social media effort posting to Instagram where she has 10.7m followers. Pop stars dominate on Twitter, taking the top three places \u2013 Katy Perry has 48.4m followers, Justin Bieber has 47.7m and Lady Gaga has 40.8m. That said, StatusPeople, a Twitter-follower analysis company, claims up to 30% of followers could be bots, so even social media success comes with a data caveat. Those figures may seem a dubious measure of popularity, but they're viewed by the music industry as very significant. It's standard practice for major labels to assess an act's popularity on social media before taking a chance on signing them, and equally standard for Radio 1 to examine the same statistics before deciding whether or not to put a song on its playlist. However, radio is no longer the surest way to reach listeners. Unquestionably the biggest platform for music today is YouTube, with more than 1bn regular users. In its list of the year's most viewed videos, Psy follows his success of last year with Gangnam Style, coming top again with Gentleman (603m views), followed by Miley Cyrus's Wrecking Ball (409m). Those numbers are for the official videos, but the variety of user-uploaded and parody versions will push the cumulative numbers higher still, meaning that on YouTube there is \"official\" success and a more nebulous \"unofficial\" success. Then there's the question of endorsement deals, by which the biggest stars \u2013 but only the biggest stars \u2013 can further enhance their revenue. Jay-Z's deal with Samsung earlier this year was worth a reported $20m and symbolises a new type of pop star where old revenue streams are just the starting point for their earnings. It also enabled Jay-Z to bypass traditional release patterns, with his album Magna Carta Holy Grail being released initially as a download to owners of Samsung devices. The importance of endorsements was shown by Forbes magazine's announcement that the highest paid pop star of 2013 was Madonna, calculated across all her revenue streams. But get an endorsement deal wrong, and the consequences can be disastrous: Duffy's bizarre advertisement for Diet Coke was believed to have undermined her after her first album, Rockferry, was a smash hit, and her career never recovered. For more than a century, the music industry ran on gut instinct and crossed fingers. Now it has almost endless sources of information and measurements of success providing acres of data, most of it delivered in real time. But it's likely that to many music fans, none of those things mattered yesterday evening, because no matter what the sales are, no matter who tops the charts, the Christmas No 1 still captures the imagination in a way a million metrics simply cannot do. X Factor's Sam Bailey has the Christmas No 1, but how do we measure the success of Rihanna, Miley Cyrus and Jay-Z and other stars in the age of streaming, social media and YouTube? \u2022 X Factor winner Sam Bailey scores Christmas No 1 \u2022 2013's Singles of the Year, reviewed by the stars",
  "title": "Sam Bailey is the Christmas No 1 \u2013 but who's had pop's most successful year?",
  "lead": "How do we measure the success of Sam Bailey, Rihanna, Miley Cyrus and Jay-Z and other stars in the age of streaming, social media and YouTube?",
  "tags": [
    "music/uk-charts",
    "music/popandrock",
    "music/daft-punk",
    "music/emeli-sande",
    "music/jayz",
    "music/music",
    "culture/justin-timberlake",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/youtube",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "tv-and-radio/the-x-factor"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "music/2013/dec/23/christmas-no-1-sam-bailey-measure-success",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}