{
  "content": "In one of the first articles I wrote about the new-fangled World Wide Web for Computer Guardian -- back in the mists, this was the section we had before Online, which came before today's Technology -- one of the early webmistresses explained what she got out of it: she said we were paying her attention. This, of course, turned into the scramble for eyeballs that powered the Web 1.0 Bubble. Attention was valuable when it was commoditized and sold in bulk. Now it's becoming even more valuable, as it's personalized and targeted. This is what Amazon and eBay do when they offer me things to buy based on what I've already bought. And the more they know about me, the better their targeting could be. At the moment, these things are pretty crude. eBay.co.uk, for example, notices I buy Quad hi-fi and shows me pictures of Quad bikes. This is silly. But (as I pointed out in my column this week) Google could do a massively better job, if it wanted to. It has access to some of my email, some of my friends (on Orkut), and some of the people I talk to (Google Talk) etc. It knows some of the places I visit (directions on Google Maps), and from my searches, one heck of a lot about things I'm interested in buying. This is not about showing 5 billion people a banner ad for Coca-Cola. It's about someone coming up with an obscure Japanese recording of Pictures at an Exhibition played Gamelan style and Google's ad software saying: \"Aha, bet Jack will buy that!\" All this is attention data, and it's becoming extremely valuable to Amazon, eBay, Google, Yahoo, Microsoft and all the other companies that want to make money from targeted advertising -- including, perhaps, the Guardian. But who owns that data? Who controls how it's collected and how it's used? Who benefits from it? This is something that a group called AttentionTrust is thinking seriously about. One member, Ed Batista, recently wrote to Jeff Jarvis of Buzz Machine fame, explaining the organization's three-part mission: 1) Educate people about the existence of \"attention data,\" ie metadata that reflects what we pay attention to (and what we ignore) and its potential value as a resource. 2) Empower people to exert greater control over their own attention data \u2013 our first initiative in this area is the recent release of the AttentionTrust Extension, an \"attention recorder\" in the form of a Firefox extension that allows users to record and share aspects of their clickstream and browsing history. 3) Build a community of individuals and organizations that agree to respect users' rights to own, manage and exchange their attention data in a transparent environment that allows users to decide who has access to their data and how it's used. When the Internet was penetrating everyday society, this wasn't really an issue. The net allowed you to be anonymous or assume a persona, we thought, as summed up in a New Yorker cartoon published on July 5, 1993: \"On the Internet, nobody knows you're a dog.\" The cartoon is reproduced here. But scroll down for the Reality Check, published in 1997.... The sort of tracking and profiling done by Amazon, eBay and other suppliers isn't very scary, because it's not comprehensive, and because they are not particularly good at exploiting it. To the extent that they are, it's even useful. But we're entering an age when it can be extremely comprehensive, and very effectively exploited, not just by merchants but by governments. That really is scary.",
  "title": "Are you paying attention?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/searchengines",
    "business/technology",
    "business/business",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "In one of the first articles I wrote about the new-fangled World Wide Web for Computer Guardian -- back in the mists, this was the section we had before Online, which came before today's Technology -- one of the early webmistresses explained what she got out of it: she said we were paying her attention. This, of course, turned into the scramble for eyeballs that powered the Web 1.0 Bubble.",
  "id": "technology/blog/2005/nov/04/areyoupaying",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}