{
  "content": "The American technology news site TechCrunch has become the object of a furious row after publishing details of business plans, financial projections and executive notes from Twitter which it says were provided by a hacker. In a series of postings (which we are not linking to here for legal reasons), Mike Arrington, the site's founder, said that he had been passed \"hundreds of confidential corporate and personal documents of Twitter and Twitter employees\", which included \"310 documents, ranging from executive meeting notes, partner agreements and financial projections to the meal preferences, calendars and phone logs of various Twitter employees.\" He said they came from a hacker calling himself \"Hacker Croll\", who appears to be French. The documents leaked after \"Croll\" used password recovery techniques (guess the answers to key questions, get the password resent to an email of your choosing) beginning with an employee in Twitter and the wife of Twitter co-founder Evan Williams's Gmail account, and then spreading to his PayPal, Amazon, Apple and AT&amp;T accounts, says Techcrunch. Williams's wife and a number of Twitter staff were also targeted. [Bold type indicates updating following new information from Twitter.] Williams has confirmed that hack and called it \"highly distressing\". Arrington, who is a graduate of Stanford Law School and has practised law, said that he would hold back many of the personal documents, but \"we are going to release some of the documents showing financial projections, product plans and notes from executive strategy meetings. We're also going to post the original pitch document for the Twitter TV show that hit the news in May, mostly because it's awesome.\" His readers were less impressed - and if TechCrunch's readers aren't impressed, you can bet that what has been done is really unimpressive. To quote one, called Richard, who seems good at making distinctions, in the UK there is a \"public interest\" defence, meaning it is legally acceptable to publishing material even if it was obtained through dubious means. That's why The Telegraph are not being prosecuted over the MP expenses publication. However what a lot of people forget is that \"public interest\" does NOT mean \"the public are interested\". It means \"in the best interests of the public\". It would seem very much to me that these Twitter docs fall into the first category. Yes, you might find them interesting, but there's no public interest justification for publishing them. Unless, of course, the docs say that Twitter are planning to infect the water supply, invade Canada, etc. It seems the latter is not among Twitter's corporate aims. Getting extremely big extremely fast is: the documents suggest that it wants to be the first social network to reach a billion users. But then, doesn't everyone? Evan Williams of Twitter remarked somewhat wearily on his own service that he was \"having a bad night\". Arrington defends himself thus: We publish confidential information almost every day on TechCrunch. This is stuff that is also \"stolen,\" usually leaked by an employee or someone else close to the company, and the company is very much opposed to its publication. In the past we've received comments that this is unethical. And it certainly was unethical, or at least illegal or tortious, for the person who gave us the information and violated confidentiality and/or nondisclosure agreements. But on our end, it's simply news. He points to a number of previous TechCrunch postings - and to the Wall Street Journal's posting of an internal Yahoo memo, and Gawker's posting of Sarah Palin's hacked emails, as examples of other organisations publishing embarrassing details with the defence of \"news\". His commenters, however, then point out the difference between \"leaked\" and \"stolen\": had the Telegraph broken into the House of Commons and taken that terabyte disk, it's safe to say the MPs' expenses story would have been rather different, and Will Lewis might be getting his toothbrush ready for a stay at Her Majesty's pleasure. And Arrington also blames Twitter for being too trusting: It's not our fault that Google has a ridiculously easy way to get access to accounts via their password recovery question. It's not our fault that Twitter stored all of these documents and sensitive information in the cloud and had easy-to-guess passwords and recovery questions. For a coda, he adds: I feel bad for Twitter and I wish this had never happened. But it did happen and the documents are out there and they are going to be published somewhere on the Internet. Hopefully the embarrassing and sensitive stuff about individual employees will never see the light of day. One interesting point: California, where both Twitter and Techcrunch are based, has a trade secrets law. Apple has tried to use it in the past to sue bloggers who posted details about its upcoming products, but without success. Would Twitter try it? The cat is probably too far out of the bag - but then again, would a lawsuit make Techcrunch think twice next time? Well, we can hope. And hopefully this situation will encourage Google and Google users to consider more robust data security policies in the future. Apart from pointing out that \"hopefully\" is an adverb, we'd have to say - yes. Google needs better authentication. How about OpenID? (Updated: corrected standfirst and part of post based on information in Twitter blogpost; corrected blockquote.)",
  "title": "Techcrunch defends posting confidential documents garnered by Twitter hacker",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/evan-williams",
    "media/techcrunch"
  ],
  "lead": "The web news site Techcrunch has come under fire from its own readers for publishing documents passed to it by a hacker who broke into <span style=\"text-decoration: line-through;\">co-founder Evan Williams's Gmail account email and shared documents",
  "id": "media/pda/2009/jul/15/twitter-hacked-techcrunch-defends",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}