{
  "content": "You never forget your first \"no\", do you? It seems like only yesterday that I was standing red-faced in the wendy house, being told I couldn't play because I was a boy. The girls didn't want me messing up their toy kitchen and the boys certainly didn't want me anywhere near their football game, so I dried my disappointed tears and turned to a friend who'd never tell me no; I picked up a book. That's one relationship I've never regretted. Advances in technology, and the urge to express ourselves as loudly as possible, mean rejection has never been so easy to dole out. Swiping left on Tinder, blocking on Twitter, marching to the polling booth: a firm no is never far away, but the bitter sting never fails to shock. We've witnessed an unusually high level of public rejection over the last few turbulent weeks, from politicians discovering their posses were lacking compadres and feeling their ambition turn to ash in their mouths, to the much-maligned EU, sadly opening its Dear John letter from 52% of the UK, all calls going straight to voicemail. Rejection can teach you a lot about yourself and those around you. \"No\" may never be music to your ears, but you can learn to take it with dignity. Or, at the very least, store up ample fuel for your revenge. By your colleagues It's character-building stuff, having an office nemesis. Or so I told myself as \"Janet\", a malicious, steely office manager, unleashed a year of terror upon me. What had I done to Janet? It didn't matter. I used the wrong mug. I moved a meeting. I left a Post-it on her desk. Janet wasn't happy, and she had backup \u2013 ideas fell flat in meetings, office drinks happened without me. \"Look, mate,\" they'd say, \"you need to sort it out with Janet.\" Workplace disputes can be harrowing. Just ask anyone who went near a political party leadership contest in the last month or so. If you face bitter hatred with blind positivity, your detractors will get bored. I smiled a lot, was extra-polite and gave Janet no possible reason to dislike me, eventually winning her round by bringing in cake and praying she'd find a new arch-rival soon. She did, of course. They always do. And all it cost me was time and lost Tupperware. Janet sent a memo round on my behalf, demanding its return. By your partner \"It's not you, it's me\" doesn't help, does it? Breakups are the hardest rejection to take of all, because they're not about getting turned down for something you wanted; they're the removal of something you actually had. I've had my share of these, with front-row seats to both sides of the story, and I quickly realised that wishing things would go back to how they were is pointless. It's evolve or be crushed. If I couldn't be their lover, I'd be the best ex they ever had. No heartbroken phone calls in the night, no forlorn texting, no shirtless pics or flaunting my new love on social media, a total dearth of vaguebooking, just the biggest gift of all: invisibility. I stayed out of their way, didn't get in touch, became a ghost. Remembering me fondly thanks to my disappearing act, they almost always get back in touch eventually. I'd moved on by then, of course. Zing! By friends It has happened to us all: just casually scrolling through baby pictures and misguided political rants on Facebook, only to see all your friends are tagging themselves at a party you don't seem to have in your calendar. Nothing feeds FOMO (fear of missing out) like a good old NFI (not fucking invited) \u2013 even more so when technology shoves these miserable acronyms right in your face, like salt into your scars. Are you that awful? Is it about the time you were sick all down yourself during dinner? Do you actually want to be there, or is it the principle, because nobody cares about principles other than their own, I'm afraid. Remind them what amazing company you are by tagging hundreds of old photos of debauched parties past. Wait by the phone; there'll be a text any minute now. By children We like to claim in public that we don't \"play favourites\" when it comes to people (or pets), but let's face it, that's nonsense. And what about when you're the one playing second fiddle? I have two godsons whom I adore, and while one of them likes me back just as much, I can't help but notice, on Sunday visits, the other gravitates more toward his godmother. She brings better sweets, she laughs more. Obviously, this smarts like hell, but I don't let it show \u2013 I just go off to the kitchen to wring out a dishcloth. If there's one thing I've learned, watching my cousins seethe with envy as I became the favourite grandchild of not one but both my grandmothers, it's that you have to ride it out. Idols will fall; they can't stay perfect for ever. They mess up and, when they do, you'll be waiting. At least that's what my cousins told themselves. On a dating app \"Why don't they love me?\" I'd cry when I was single, throwing myself on to a fainting couch whenever someone I'd contacted didn't reciprocate. Swiping left, ghosting, firing back messages with a curt \"ugh no\" \u2013 dating has never been so brutal. My takeaway from these rejections was always a) there was something about my profile that needed attention; and b) you cannot make someone want you. This knowledge alone was enough to encourage me. When I did the rejecting \u2013 hey, it happened, OK? \u2013 I'd get the odd aggressive comeback telling me I was ugly or stupid, or they were too good for me anyway. And you know what? I'd always immediately change my mind and agree to meet them. Except I didn't, because nobody would ever do that. Just putting it out there. On social media I've never understood those who actively seek to be blocked by someone on Twitter, believing that social media is a battle to be won, and antagonising or being wilfully dim until people can't take it any more is the prize. #BlockedAndProud, they say, when someone's finally had enough of arguing about Brexit. Why? There are lots of reasons someone won't want to see you on their Twitter timeline, but to gloat about it says more about you. When I notice I'm blocked, it's like a mirror appears out of the darkness, forcing me to look and ask myself why that might be. It's almost always a very unflattering reflection, and you don't even have to care why, obviously, but a little self-awareness never did anyone any harm. Either I'm a moron, or they are, but there's definitely a loser in there somewhere. To a marriage proposal My friend had everything sorted: an engagement ring, New York in winter, champagne on ice \u2013 the only thing missing was a Yes. As he finally got up off one arthritic knee to face an even greater pain, he thought his life was over, but a no to marriage didn't mean a no to him. It's just that holy matrimony isn't for everyone. You see a ring as a sign of commitment; they look at it like prison bars, and 30 years of someone ordering you about and moaning you drink too much. You don't need a ring on your finger to be together for ever, I told him. And think of the money you've saved \u2013 weddings are expensive! He started to say something about flights to New York, a five-star hotel and his ruined credit card limit, but my sympathetic well had run dry by then. Anyway, they're married now \u2013 to other people. The point still stands: a no can lead to happiness. For a new job I eventually gave up wondering why I didn't get jobs, especially when the feedback was always how brilliant and perfect for the role I was. \"You were a very strong candidate,\" they'd say. \"You'd be a great addition to the team.\" Um, OK. So\u2026 where's my desk? If you're honest with yourself, you can work out what wasn't right. Managers usually want to hire someone just like themselves, or as near as they can get. Plus, many interviewers already have a candidate in mind \u2013 an internal one, usually \u2013 so sometimes it really is beyond your control. Sure, you fail more if you try more, but at least you're trying. I used to tell myself: \"They weren't ready for you.\" Either that, or I'd resolve to launch a rival company and buy them out. It may take a while. By the public The nearest I got to testing out my public image was submitting my mugshot to be rated for attractiveness on Hot Or Not?, back when the internet was still in its training pants (average score of 8.5, in case you're interested). But whether you're an MP or a Big Brother contestant, having the entire population turn against you is no fun. Unless, of course, you use it your advantage. Sure, they've compared you to Satan and created memes where a giant cat rips off your head and spits a fireball down your neck, but we live in a post-fact world \u2013 nobody really remembers anything any more and who's the one getting the attention? Them or you? It's you! Use it! Remember, the public may be backing away from you and clutching cloves of garlic right now, but you're only ever about two gossip mag interviews away from redemption, not to mention gay icon status. Rejection is an express lane to underdog status, and you know how much everyone loves one of those. \u2022 The Guyliner blogs at theguyliner.com",
  "title": "'It's not me, it's you': a loser's guide to dealing with rejection",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/relationships",
    "media/social-media",
    "money/work-and-careers",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Hearing 'no' is hard to take, be it after a date, at work, or on social media. So how do you cope? ",
  "id": "lifeandstyle/2016/jul/23/guide-dealing-with-rejection-guyliner",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}