{
  "content": "Over Ello? Periscoped-out? Sick of Snapchat? Good news, then: there's yet another social network on the scene, trying to eat up your life. Peach is a new, lighthearted app seeking to slide in to the space in our digital lives somewhere between Twitter and Facebook. Like the latter, it gives you \"friends\" rather than \"followers\" (with every connection symmetrical), and leaves profiles and postings generally private, rather than public on the open web. But like the former, activity is limited to simple postings, rather than the full platform for web apps that Facebook has become. Of course, new social networks are ten-a-penny these days, with everyone wanting to be the next Mark Zuckerberg. But Peach has pedigree: the company was founded by Dom Hofmann, a co-founder of video based-social network Vine, which was acquired by Twitter shortly before its launch in 2013. By one reckoning, Vine was the last social network launched to really take off (some may give that crown to Ello, the arty Twitter competitor launched in 2014). Could Hoffman repeat the magic? The question for the company in the immediate future will be whether it has enough to distinguish itself from its larger competitors. Currently, it pins its identity on what the tech-minded might call \"structured data\": any posting can be accompanied with a number of tags, such as a rating out of five stars, an automatic link to whatever music is playing, or the weather outside. Plus emojis. Lots and lots of emojis. Taking a cue from Slack, the darling of business-focused messaging, Peach also lets you do all these things with just a few keystrokes, bringing back a sort of command-line for messaging. Type 'g' to bring up a search box for gifs; type 'c' to bring up a share dialogue for calendar events. Some are even more powerful: type 'sa' to switch to Safari - perfect for finding a link to then paste back into the app. But there's another aspect to the app that some find interesting \u2013 and concerning. Unlike almost every other social network (but in keeping with Vine when it launched), Peach is entirely contained within the app, which is currently iOS-only. There's no web app, nor any way to view posts publicly. The only (approved) way to share anything outside the app itself is by sending a text message with the contents of it pasted in, and a link to the app's website. David Carroll, a professor of media design at Parsons School of Design in New York, writes that \"Peach is a proprietary platform in every way, perhaps more than anything we've seen to date in the evolution of social media apps. It diverts our attention away from the Open Web and into a privately-owned walled-garden. It [is] fun and playful with clever magic words that induce you to share more meta data.\"",
  "title": "What is Peach? The new social network app taking the tech world by storm",
  "lead": "It's the new social network from Vine's co-founder where you can post a gif with just one letter, and it's currently iOS-only. But is it just another Ello?",
  "tags": [
    "technology/apps",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/vine",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2016/jan/11/peach-new-social-network-app-vine-ios",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}