{
  "content": "Charlotte Church has settled her civil action against News International and the private investigator Glenn Mulcaire over alleged voicemail interception by the News of the World. Church will appear at the high court in London on Monday, when the details of the settlement between News International, the singer and her parents James and Maria will be announced. She was the final victim of News of the World phone hacking in a trial of test cases due to begin on Monday 27 February to settle. Mr Justice Vos was due to consider the claim that 33 articles about Church and her family in the now-defunct Sunday newspaper were the product of hacking into voicemails and had a negative impact on the family's business and her mother's health. But during a high court hearing on Thursday on possible reporting restrictions on the trial, Vos was told that the case had settled. It is understood that the terms of the settlement were agreed late on Wednesday. Church's manager John Vernile said: \"We are looking forward to being in court on Monday before Mr Justice Vos. \"It's been a long battle and there have been handbrake turns but we have learned a lot from the process of going throughout this, which we will be able to talk about more on Monday.\" He confirmed that the singer plans to attend in person and she is expected to make a statement. Earlier this week the Financial Times reported that News Group Newspapers, the News International subsidiary that published the News of the World before its closure in July 2011, was likely to offer Church up to \u00a3500,000 in damages and costs, with the damages element set at about \u00a3180,000. Michael Silverleaf QC, counsel for News Group Newspapers, told a pre-trial hearing at the high court on Thursday that the publisher was attempting to settle \"quite a few more\" cases against it over alleged voicemail interception. At the same high court hearing Guardian News &amp; Media, publisher of the Guardian and MediaGuardian, was granted access to court documents that have not previously been released. Vos ruled that the Guardian should be allowed to see the court documents \u2013 which are thought to include information about how the previous settlements were reached \u2013 in a redacted form. The judge will rule on Monday what specific material the Guardian should be allowed to see. Vos said that the documents contain \"quite specific allegations\" against Mulcaire, but that he was content for the Guardian to see the redacted files. Gavin Millar, counsel for Mulcaire, said that the private investigator's \"rights are in the balance\" and asked the court not to release a \"mass of prejudicial material\" into the public domain. Church's civil claim was due to go to full trial on Monday along with five other \"lead cases\". Vos wanted to hear the lead cases to create a benchmark for compensation payable by News International in the event of future action being taken by any of the 800 people identified by police as likely to have had their phones hacked by Mulcaire, the private investigator who worked for the News of the World for several years up to mid-2006. Each of the cases was a sample from six categories of victims, ranging from celebrities to crime victims to sports stars such as the jockey Kieren Fallon, who was also picked out as a \"lead\" case but agreed to settle earlier this month. News International settled 37 civil actions in January \u2013 including high-profile actions brought by the actor Jude Law and the son of serial killer Harold Shipman \u2013 in a bid to prevent them from going to trial, and paid out to another 21 victims of phone hacking earlier this month. However, News International faces at least 50 fresh civil actions from figures including Cherie Blair, the wife of the former Labour prime minister. Others who have already filed claims include footballer Peter Crouch, singer James Blunt and Ukip leader Nigel Farage. Separately on Wednesday, it was confirmed that the former News of the World editor Andy Coulson has been denied permission to appeal against an earlier high court ruling that NGN does not have to pay his potential legal costs over the phone-hacking affair. Mr Justice Supperstone ruled in December that NGN is not liable to pay his legal bills over potential allegations of criminality against him. Coulson, who has consistently denied any wrongdoing, was arrested and bailed in July by officers from Operation Weeting, the Metropolitan police investigation into phone hacking at the News of the World. \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Charlotte Church settles phone-hacking case with News International",
  "lead": "Details of deal between star and News of the World publisher to be announced in court next week. By Josh Halliday",
  "tags": [
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "music/charlotte-church",
    "music/music",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2012/feb/23/charlotte-church-phone-hacking-case",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}