{
  "content": "Barack Obama's inauguration was clearly historic as the United States celebrated its first black president, but the coverage and experience of the inauguration also broke new ground. For the first time, digital satellite images showed the millions of people who braved the cold to see the inauguration. Microsoft's Photosynth software stitched together thousands of photos to show the inauguration in 3D on CNN's website, and CNN also brought together a live stream of its coverage and Facebook. Blogger C.C. Chapman said in his post and in the video above: This changes things. The fact that I don't HAVE to turn on my television if I don't want to. The fact that I can share the experience with friends around the globe in real time. The fact that this is another step towards social viewing. This isn't the first time that chat or social elements have been integrated into video streaming, but with CNN's success, we're bound to see more experiments like this. Integrating the internet and television or video isn't really new. I can remember a decade ago, MTV in the US showing chat room comments under music videos. Several online video services like Joost have integrated chat into their services, but CNN's Facebook feature was definitely a coming of age for this type of social video service. CNN.com said it has served more than 21.3m live video streams, including 1.3m simultaneous streams before Obama gave his address, according to CNET.com. Facebook had 1.5m inauguration-related updates, and Facebook provided these figures: \u2022 600,000 status updates have been posted so far through the CNN.com Live Facebook feed \u2022 There were an average of 4,000 status updates every minute during the broadcast \u2022 There were 8,500 status updates the minute Obama began his speech I tried the service during the inauguration, but I had problems with it. When Facebook is getting a lot of traffic, the service logs me out in seconds. Later during the parade, I was to use the service from home. It was nice to be able to chat with friends from Malaysia, the UK and the US about the ceremony. It wasn't just Facebook, and Toronto's Globe and Mail called it the \"The first true Internet inauguration\". Web caching service Akamai said that global internet traffic surged 54% above normal during the inauguration. Social media played a huge role in how people experienced the inauguration. Twitter continued its partnership with Al Gore's Current TV, and CBS and NPR partnered with Twittervision to create inaugurationreport.com. CBS and NPR aggregated huge amounts of content including not only tweets, but also images, audio and video using the tag inaug09. With video on demand services ramping up with the success of the BBC's iPlayer and social networking becoming more mainstream, efforts to merge the two have been ongoing. Cable set-top box makers are already cooking social features into their wares, and software like Boxee, which made a big splash at CES, are bringing together social recommendation features and media centre software so that you can see what your friends are watching and listening to. I think this will be one area of experimentation in 2009. What social video services are you using? What features do you like? Or do you think this is just a gimmick?",
  "title": "Facebook meets TV, literally",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "us-news/barack-obama",
    "technology/television",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": "CNN integrated Facebook with a live video stream of their coverage of Barack Obama's inauguration. This might just jump start more social video experiments.",
  "id": "technology/blog/2009/jan/21/barackobama-television",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}