{
  "content": "There's no doubt the messaging app space is heating up. Beyond WhatsApp \u2013 acquired earlier this year by Facebook for \u00a311bn \u2013 there are countless other players, some of which you've probably never heard: KakaoTalk, Kik, Line, Secret, Snapchat, Tango, Viber, WeChat and Whisper. There are some serious success stories in this space too: Japanese messaging app Line recently filed for an IPO valued at over \u00a35.9bn and more recently, internet giant Rakuten purchased Viber for \u00a3528m. I recently published a report to explain how messaging apps are morphing into new media portals and it also got me thinking about how marketers might use these apps. They allow for intimacy Contrary to social media platforms that are typically public broadcast mechanisms that facilitate one-to-many communications (think Facebook or Twitter), a messaging app is generally a private, one-to-one or one-to-few communications tool optimised for mobile. These smartphone apps can also access your address book, bypassing the need to rebuild your social graph on a new service. This allows marketers to engage with their customers in a more intimate way, but that's only if they spark a genuine conversation, instead of broadcasting a marketing message. For example, IKEA recently redesigned its print catalogue on Instagram with the help of its fans. Quickly engage younger audiences Messaging apps also offer users more control over their online identities. Some, such as Secret or Whisper, are based on anonymity and allow users to assume and drop personalities, protecting their identity while allowing them to connect. This option is especially appealing to young adults, whose identities are more likely to be evolving. While consumer reluctance to share identities imposes certain limitations for marketers, Snapchat's transitory nature works well for time-sensitive promotions \u2013 or, as demonstrated by Taco Bell, behind-the-scenes content. Extend your global reach Messaging apps have quickly grown their subscriber bases into hundreds of millions of users. WhatsApp has more than 500 million active users, WeChat has 396 million active users, while Line reports to have 480 million registered users. Few brands offer such a large mobile reach. Because most of your customers won't visit your own mobile website and even fewer will download your app, messaging apps often provide the best opportunity to reach your customers on mobile phones, especially in emerging markets where the audience of these apps is skyrocketing. Engage with your consumers where they spend their time In the UK, time spent on messaging apps like WhatsApp can exceed time spent on Facebook. Of course, the vast majority of this time for now is spent talking with friends and relatives. However, people are starting to use these apps for more than just communication. As this trend continues, brands will be able to get deeper customer insights, become a part of conversations in a non-intrusive way, and reach audiences where they spend a great deal of their time. Add value by integrating services Another potential for marketers is that they'll be able to add value by integrating services, such as location, commerce and payments. Many messaging apps have innovated by adding new features and content. Line, for example \u2013 positioned as a \"smartphone life platform\" \u2013 offers numerous games and stickers. Paul McCartney released a set of exclusive stickers through his Line account to more than 10m followers. Another example is WeChat, which allows people to book flights or make payments. Fellow Tencent taxi app Didi now sees around 700,000 bookings per day coming from WeChat. These messaging apps have the potential either to become digital platforms of their own right (WeChat is already morphing into a digital platform offering, thanks to the deep pockets of its parent company, Tencent) or to significantly enhance the power of current platforms because they so clearly deliver the three things that determine digital platform power: frequent interactions, emotional connection and convenience. While today's opportunities are limited by the reluctance of consumers to engage with brands on such intimate channels and by immature marketing tools, it's definitely time for marketers to experiment and to anticipate the next steps. Thomas Husson is a vice president and principal analyst at Forrester Research To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled 'Advertisement feature'. Find out more here.",
  "title": "Messaging apps offer brands extended global reach and deeper engagement",
  "lead": "Apps such as Kik, Snapchat, Viber and Tango enable marketers to engage with people intimately but non-intrusively online",
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/whatsapp",
    "technology/snapchat",
    "technology/viber",
    "technology/chat-messaging-apps"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media-network/media-network-blog/2014/jul/23/messaing-apps-marketing-kik-snapchat",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}