{
  "content": "Xing.com, the business social networking site, has continued its expansion across Europe with the acquisition of Turkey's largest online business site cember.com. The Hamburg-based internet firm is hoping to stake its claim in small but rapidly developing markets across the continent. Xing bought the Spanish networks eConozco and Neurona in March last year. The acquisition of the profitable cember.com adds another 280,000 business people to the Xing userbase. The price paid was not disclosed. \"We view Turkey as being one of Europe's fastest growing national economies,\" said the Xing chief executive, Lars Hinrichs. \"As well as proving a profitable company, cember.net has the key advantage of already being an established brand within Turkey. \"We are looking forward to working together to further build on our market leadership in Europe and our presence.\" Xing.com is the major rival to LinkedIn, which this week announced new push for European traffic with the appointment of Kevin Eyres as its first European managing director. Social networking sites are increasingly targeting niche audiences to offer specialised services, and both firms want to attract the lucrative business community which typically makes up around 25% of the population. Facebook has seen strong growth in Turkey and has 1.6 million users registered. Xing has a particularly strong presence in Germany but, unlike Facebook, makes money through a paid-for premium service. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Business social networking site Xing buys Turkish counterpart cember.com",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/mediabusiness",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "Xing.com, the business social networking site, has continued its expansion across Europe with the acquisition of Turkey's largest online business site cember.com. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "technology/2008/jan/25/socialnetworking.digitalmedia",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}