{
  "content": "Silicon Valley was spinning yesterday on the announcement that Twitter CEO Dick Costolo would step down from his position there. The platform's creator Jack Dorsey will run the business for now as interim CEO. In many ways the news was expected. Investors have been watching new competitors sneak up on Twitter and grow faster, even surpassing its user numbers. But it was also a big surprise to those who have been part of Twitter's phenomenal story and Dick's considerable contribution to it. While Dick and the executive team made it very clear on the investor call that this was his decision and that it was in the works for months, many are using this as an opportunity to tell Twitter all the things they've done wrong. Many are blaming Dick for failing to be phenomenal enough. While Twitter helped to unlock the social web, turning the internet into a fluid and global conversation, the company lost control of the very public perception about what success looks like in social media. Facebook defined success for social platforms by user growth rates. With such a remarkable story backing up that metric they won hearts and minds and defined the playing field for the entire sector. Dick understood this and was fiercely competitive about it, but he faced some other big challenges, too. When he initially took the helm as Twitter's chief operating officer in 2009 the company was very chaotic, and the platform was still struggling technically. Users were pushing the platform to do things nobody could have predicted, including testing the limits of free speech in countries that don't support free speech. Developers were building apps on top of the platform which extended its power and its role in the internet ecosystem but also extracted a lot of value out of Twitter's control and even competed with their host in many ways. More fundamentally, the company was unsure if it was a technology company or a media company. There was a sort of schizophrenia about this issue which had to be solved in order to define the company's commercial strategy and its roadmap. When Dick joined the company Twitter was still a new innovation in the market with many possible futures, and many people with many interests pushing it in many different directions. I think the list of people capable of taking on all those challenges while maintaining a cool head is very very short. If you then consider the massive, historic impact of its most direct competitor and finally the pressure from investors to see the company hit the public markets I think that list gets down to exactly one person. It's hard to imagine Twitter would be as strong as it is today without Dick. Now that he's gone and user growth has been reinforced as the driving success metric for the company, the next leader will have to either deliver on that or change the questions about what success means. Can it redefine its purpose around more macro values? What does social media mean to people, how does it help them, and is Twitter the best in class at serving at least one piece of that massive opportunity? If Twitter can redefine their position at that sort of level then they can start rethinking what they offer. Is its commercial strategy healthy, and are its customers happy? Do people love the product? They'll have to be careful about focus. Twitter can't afford to revisit the decision to be an advertising platform as opposed to being a technology provider/utility even though it's precisely that kind of question that could put to rest the user growth argument and create a viable competitive position in a market dominated by Facebook. Instead insiders point out that Twitter will have to look at the relevance of activity on the network and the interestingness of what people see on it. And it will have to be more appealing to less technically capable users. The next CEO must take on these types of questions and the public challenges by people like investor Chris Sacca, and appeal to Twitter customers very publicly to rally support for their ideas. Twitter is a public conversation, and its future cannot be achieved without public scrutiny. That is one of the many things that makes it really interesting and unique. But that also means it will need a strong majority of its most valued users, customers and investors to support the things it wants to do. That is a very tricky balance to strike that will require a very special CEO. Again, I don't know the conditions of Dick's departure, but they may regret failing to do everything in their power to keep him at the helm to steer the company through these very difficult waters. To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled 'Advertisement feature'. Find out more here.",
  "title": "Dick Costolo's departure raises questions about what success means at Twitter",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/media",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/silicon-valley"
  ],
  "lead": "The company's biggest challenge will be to align expectations to a game that it can win",
  "id": "media-network/2015/jun/12/dick-costolo-leaves-twitter-jack-dorsey",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}