{
  "content": "Just as nature abhors a vacuum, the internet abhors geo-specific regulation. I may read about a contempt of court ruling in the UK, I Google a related name and the restricted identity is everywhere \u2013 in the image results, in dozens, hundreds, maybe thousands of articles, and beyond that discussed on maybe even millions of social media pages. Deletion and retrieval does not work, and gossip cannot be easily doused. Lord McAlpine is suing half of Twitter on the basis that retweets of the BBC's error are each worth \u00a35 of damage. This is one of the most obvious and troubling challenges for any remedy that the Leveson inquiry tries to impose on the UK press. Lord Justice Leveson more than once referred to the internet as \"the elephant in the room\". Leveson is in fact more like the tea hut in the elephant sanctuary by that measure. The scope of the work puts him in self-imposed isolation from what is happening in the wider world of information. The relevance of the Leveson report in protecting privacy and curtailing the excesses of press behaviour has to be questionable from the outset, as its remit is both narrow and historic. Is Huffington Post UK inside or outside the scope, or the Twitter meanderings of a sometimes-freelance but mostly not working journalist who has more than one affiliation with the \"national press\"? Start-ups? Lone tweeters? Personalised data? What about \"drone journalism\"? Yes, there is such a thing, and it is one of the things we ask a great deal in journalism education: when everything is visible, and available, what do we report? Can we keep it and analyse the data? Should we record phone conversations and use new techniques in lie detection to determine who is telling the truth? In many ways Leveson is a large vote of confidence in the power of the press and its continuing influence over the tenor of the national conversation. The almost obsessive focus given to the issue of freedom of the press and coverage of the report by the existing press is also understandable, but is it rational? There is an interesting passage in the evidence given to Leveson by lawyer Graham Shear, who describes the difficulty of controlling rumour and innuendo online. Leveson asks him if he has spoken to \"internet service providers\". Shear says he has, but that as Google has no servers in the UK \"you seek to persuade them\". Twitter he says \"is more difficult\". So effectively the two most powerful platforms for news (and gossip) dissemination in the world are already outside jurisdiction. In the exchange between Shear and Leveson, the web of social media is described as \"an extension\" of existing media. This is not true now and cannot be true in the future. The free press of the 21st century consists of the distributed social platforms, the WordPress blogging software and the \"dark social\" matter of the hidden web, as much as it is the venerable institutions that have local accountability to whatever regulator the UK government should seek to appoint. In her evidence to Leveson, Claire Enders \u2013 a well-respected media analyst \u2013 repeated what is probably a common perception, that important journalism needs to be done by existing institutions, as the web has produced nothing which would match the scale and projection of legacy organisations. From a distant perch in the US, where Pulitzer prizes now go to recent web entities such as Huffington Post and ProPublica, this assertion seems already out of date. The internet is a great leveller in terms of barriers to entry. The ability of small units of journalists to produce big stories is now established and is unlikely to change. It is a mistake to think that anything about journalism in the past is going to remain in a stable state in the future. Domestic regulation of the press is already at odds with some of the freer aspects of the internet (as with contempt law), and the real remedy is a change in culture at every level. None of this is to say that those who are violated by intrusion should not have suitable redress, or that anyone who operates outside the law should necessarily be surprised if they are arrested. But it ought to draw attention to the fact that we are entering an age where the ethics of intrusion in the public interest are about to enter a new phase. The communications data bill, for instance, is an alarming piece of potential legislation, as is every other use of personal data that lies outside our control. Next week the International Telecommunications Union meets for 12 days in Dubai to hash out the future of internet governance. It has none of the requisite establishment figures embroiled in horse-riding scandals, but it is an important moment for freedom of expression. Leveson deals with the nefarious ways of publishing personal information; it deals with the fallout of incestuous relationships run from the heart of government; and it deals with the personal cost of people crushed by journalism-as-showbusiness. What it cannot deal with is the regulation of the press in the 21st century. What is the solution? To put \"the internet\" within the scope of Leveson would be as daft as it would be futile, and to regulate the press further, without having a broader definition of who \"the press\" might be, is a recipe for irrelevance. The public deserves a vigorous free press, interested in digging out stories, and it deserves to have rights championed and explained in a murky world where the principal guarantor of privacy is wealth. It is unlikely Leveson will deliver either.",
  "title": "The Leveson inquiry is irrelevant to 21st-century journalism | Emily Bell",
  "lead": "Emily Bell: The judge's findings will address the nefarious behaviour of newspapers but not the vast array of media on the internet",
  "tags": [
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "media/press-freedom",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/press-intrusion"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/nov/28/leveson-irrelevant-21st-century-journalism",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}