{
  "content": "Conclusion of the European court of human rights ruling on Max Mosley's bid to force newspapers to warn people before exposing their private lives: The conduct of the newspaper in the applicant's case is open to severe criticism. Aside from publication of the articles detailing the applicant's sexual activities, the News of the World published photographs and video footage, obtained through clandestine recording, which undoubtedly had a far greater impact than the articles themselves. Despite the applicant's efforts in a number of jurisdictions, these images are still available on the internet. The court can see no possible additional contribution made by the audiovisual material, which appears to have been included in the News of the World's coverage merely to titillate the public and increase the embarrassment of the applicant. The court, like the parliamentary assembly, recognises that the private lives of those in the public eye have become a highly lucrative commodity for certain sectors of the media. The publication of news about such persons contributes to the variety of information available to the public and, although generally for the purposes of entertainment rather than education, undoubtedly benefits from the protection of article 10. However, as noted above, such protection may cede to the requirements of article 8 where the information at stake is of a private and intimate nature and there is no public interest in its dissemination. In this regard the court takes note of the recommendation of the select committee that the editors' code be amended to include a requirement that journalists should normally notify the subject of their articles prior to publication, subject to a \"public interest\" exception. However, the court has consistently emphasised the need to look beyond the facts of the present case and to consider the broader impact of a pre-notification requirement. The limited scope under article 10 for restrictions on the freedom of the press to publish material which contributes to debate on matters of general public interest must be borne in mind. Thus, having regard to the chilling effect to which a pre-notification requirement risks giving rise, to the significant doubts as to the effectiveness of any pre-notification requirement and to the wide margin of appreciation in this area, the court is of the view that article 8 does not require a legally binding pre-notification requirement. Accordingly, the court concludes that there has been no violation of article 8 of the convention by the absence of such a requirement in domestic law.",
  "title": "European court of human rights judgment on Max Mosley: conclusion",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/mosley",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/privacy",
    "law/human-rights",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "law/european-court-of-human-rights",
    "media/medialaw"
  ],
  "lead": "Full text of the court's conclusion on the former Formula One boss's bid to warn people before exposing their private lives",
  "id": "media/2011/may/10/echr-max-mosley-conclusion",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}