{
  "content": "Now, Lord Justice Leveson, is the time to publish and be damned. You must release the Motorman files because there is clearly an overriding public interest in knowing what they contain. Like you, I am aware of the reasons for the information commissioner opposing their publication. But the leaking into the public domain of details is a compelling reason to put the ICO's objections to one side. The public has a right to know much more about what the private investigator Steve Whittamore did on behalf of so many newspapers. Similarly, people need to grasp why there is such a wide discrepancy between the figures in the ICO's original reports on the files and the analysis by ITV News. I understand that the ICO counted only those cases in which it could identify names against cases that were prima facie breaches of the law. ITV's reporters believe, however, that their counting was even more meticulous in discovering many more instances of potentially illegal snooping. This discrepancy is another reason for publication. And then there are the \"victims\" of Whittamore's inquiries. They also have a right to know, just like the phone-hacking victims (as Labour MP Denis MacShane has argued). Why should they be kept in the dark? Is that not unjust? With respect, my lord, what we seek is transparency and accountability, two of the key criteria on which you are rightly judging the press at your inquiry. So it seems very fair to ask that you be transparent and accountable too. I have been in touch with the ICO today and its spokesman said it is your call. It has registered its objections but you have the right to decide whether to publish or not. The commissioner is certainly less than delighted by the latest revelations. They may not have totally changed his mind, but it's fair to say that they have given him and his colleagues pause for thought. They are aware of the source of the leak and can do nothing about that. Cheshire police investigated and decided not to proceed against the man responsible, Alex Owens, who was the senior investigating officer with the ICO from 1999 until 2005. You know that, my lord, because he gave evidence to you in November last year during which he spoke about his key role in the initial inquiries into Whittamore. He also revealed that, prior to his disputed departure from the ICO, he took a disk with the Motorman files and some of that information was published by The Independent in September last year. Owens's candour has been invaluable. He obviously believes the public has a right to know. It is abundantly clear from the ICO's 2006 reports and the ITV News exposures that the files provide an unrivalled insight into the way in which newspapers, at arm's length, were happy to practise darks arts in order to obtain private information. Some of this may have been in the public interest but the suspicion is that much of it, the overwhelming majority of it, was not. How will we ever know? Only if the files are placed in the public domain so that we can trawl through them, probably in company with the victims, in order to ascertain what was done. As for the victims, they surely have a right - if there were breaches of the law - to pursue their own legal actions. They are being denied that chance at present. So, Lord Justice Leveson, over to you. Redact away, if necessary, to protect the innocent. But let us see, at last, what newspapers sought and why.",
  "title": "Leveson must publish the Motorman files in the public interest",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "law/lord-justice-leveson",
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "media/itn",
    "media/ITV",
    "media/theindependent",
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "news/information-commissioner",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/operation-motorman"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade argues that the new revelations make it essential that Lord Justice Leveson releases the Steve Whittamore documents",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2012/mar/29/lord-justice-leveson-leveson-inquiry",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}