{
  "content": "The London Olympics have been variously hailed as the first social networking Olympics and the first broadband Games. In Beijing, Twitter was barely two years old and remained the preserve of a early adopting geeks while the rest of the world wondered what on earth it was for. That many people will consume the Games through Twitter, often while watching the action on television or in the flesh, is a given. For the vast majority of the 20,000 officially accredited journalists, and the thousands more unaccredited media, who will come to the capital it will border on an obsession. The current record set during Chelsea's Champions League semi-final clash with Barcelona, of more than 13,000 tweets per second, could be broken during the Games. But for the athletes and the International Olympic Committee officials, their relationship with the micro-blogging site will be more complex. Not only do athletes have to work under lengthy but still ambiguous IOC rules about their social networking activities, an increasing number are questioning whether it might affect their focus and therefore their performance. Much has been made of the good, the bad and the ugly side of Twitter for sports stars for whom it offers the attraction of an unmediated window into their world and a chance to re-establish a direct link with fans, but also puts them at grave risk of tweeting before they think. The IOC guidelines encourage Twitter and blogging, but remind athletes that they should not endorse any commercial third-parties or \"take on the role of a journalist\". Essentially, they can write about their own experiences but no one else's. They can tweet pictures from inside the Olympic Village (a new concession for these Games) but must not give away anything about their fellow competitors without their permission. On top of that, Team GB athletes must ensure they are not in contravention of any of the guidelines laid down by Sir Clive Woodward (who took to Twitter for the first time this week). Running through this mental checklist before pressing send on a pithy 140 character missive in many ways kills the immediacy that is the attraction in the first place. An increasing number seem to be deciding it's not worth the bother \u2013 or the risk of affecting their performance. In a world where mantras about aggregations of small gains and \"the missing 1%\" are legion, anything that might burst their bubble is treated with suspicion. Even those who have taken enthusiastically to Twitter are considering a sabbatical until after they have taken care of business. Rebecca Adlington is the most high-profile British medal hope to admit that the downside of Twitter could affect her performance at Games time, while the taekwondo gold medal hope Sarah Stevenson has also stepped away from the frontline. Speaking at an M&amp;C Saatchi event this week, the Sydney gold medallist Denise Lewis said she had not yet taken to Twitter and could understand why competing athletes may avoid it because it would affect their state of mind before the biggest moments of their sporting lives. On the other hand, athletes recognise that they are never going to have a better time to build their profile with the British public and take advantage of the commercial and sporting advantages that may accrue if they secure a medal in London. Patrick Sandusky, of the United States Olympic Committee, said its athletes would be encouraged to tweet but that ultimately it comes down to individuals. Michael Phelps won't go near Twitter, but his great rival Ryan Lochte is addicted. \"We'd be happy if more of them did it. It builds our brand and it builds the Olympic brand,\" said Sandusky. The BOA is walking a fine line, at once encouraging athletes to tweet but reminding them of their responsibilities not to undermine the \"One Team GB\" ethos. The 10,500 athletes who will compete at London are, to a large extent, entering uncharted territory in documenting their Games experience \u2013 but assuming their anxiety over performance, the strictures of the IOC and the concerns of their own team managers don't completely stifle any spontaneity, it might still offer a fascinating insight into a rarely glimpsed world. The debt owed to the Olympic Delivery Authority If this week's final pre-Games budget update \u2013 loudly trumpeted due to its confirmation that the Games could cost less than \u00a39bn \u2013 from the Government Olympic Executive underlined anything, it is the debt owed to Sir John Armitt and David Higgins by Olympic organisers. It was the Olympic Delivery Authority chiefs who brought in the construction phase of the project under budget despite the ravages of the recession (although, paradoxically, the downturn probably helped them in negotiations with contractors) and created the slack that has been used to inflate the security budget and deal with other overspends \u2013 while still leaving some left over to hand back to the Treasury. So what to do with unsold football tickets? London 2012 organisers very quietly reintroduced their ticket resale platform this week. You might remember that when it originally launched at the beginning of the year, all hell broke loose. Tens of thousands of people went on to the site, and Ticketmaster was forced to take it down as potential buyers chased a handful of tickets and became understandably frustrated at endlessly clicking on those that were apparently available but turned out not to exist. Relations between Locog and Ticketmaster, already strained, were stretched almost to breaking point. Although the recent sales phase still provoked frustration, not least because would-be buyers had to wait for up to half an hour to be told whether their chosen event was available, at least the technology held up. The revamped resale platform, allowing those with tickets they can no longer use to return them at face value, will be another big test. Meanwhile, organisers continue to mull what to do if they end up with hundreds of thousands of unsold football tickets \u2013 giving them away to schools and deserving causes would be the option that provoke least outrage from those who have already shelled out for tickets.",
  "title": "London 2012: IOC rules mean athletes will have to tweet carefully | Owen Gibson",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "sport/olympics-2012",
    "sport/british-olympic-association",
    "sport/rebeccaadlington",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/media",
    "sport/sport",
    "sport/olympic-games"
  ],
  "lead": "Owen Gibson: Some are addicted to it and some have abandoned it but Twitter will be hard to ignore at the London Olympics",
  "id": "sport/blog/2012/jun/15/london-2012-ioc-twitter-rules",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}