{
  "content": "I am a 23-year-old woman. There are many things I can do but having a smear test is not one of them, apparently. I recently visited my GP and asked for a smear. I was refused because of my age. There was no proper explanation, and like most people I followed doctor's orders. Then I started to think that, as cervical cancer is symptomless at first, I could have it, but I won't know for another two years or until it shows symptoms. I'm not alone in feeling frustrated \u2013 many women under 25, encouraged by Jade Goody's very public discussion of her cancer, are using social networking sites to discuss being refused smears. Cervical cancer is the second most common form of cancer in women under 35, following breast cancer. Women over 25 are invited for smear tests and girls under 18 are offered a vaccination against the HPV virus, a major cause of cervical cancer. But women between 18 and 25 are left out in the (possibly cancerous) cold. In 2004, the age women are invited to have their first smear was raised from 20 to 25. GPs have the right to refuse tests to girls who request them, and many use it. Even if a smear is taken, the lab may send it back unscreened if the woman is under 25. Yet every year more than 60 girls between 19 and 25 suffer from cervical cancer. The NHS claims that screening young women can lead to unnecessary treatment, which can cause fertility problems. While it is true that minor abnormalities are common in younger women, leaving cervical cancer undetected until it becomes invasive or spreads is surely worse, especially as it is treatable when caught early. No other country has such a high age barrier for smears. If the NHS's reasons are sound, why is 25 not the worldwide standard? Refusing women smear tests is infuriatingly counterintuitive. The government encourages us to take care of our bodies. Advertisements scream at us to stop smoking, to stop binge drinking, to get off the bus one stop early. Yet if a young woman is health conscious enough to request a smear test, she can be turned away. With 15% of eligible women choosing to miss their smear tests every year, women who ask for them should be applauded, not refused, whatever their age. Women can check their own bodies for potentially malignant changes in their breasts, but we can't detect cervical changes. Society's embarrassment over all things genitalia-related means some women are embarrassed to talk about the issue. A refusal after plucking up the courage to request a smear could be even more offputting than having someone poke around your cervix for five minutes. Family planning clinics will usually give smears to girls regardless of their age, but then we have to go to the trouble of finding one. It's awkward enough lying legs apart and half-naked on a plastic sheet, without being forced to practically beg for the privilege of being violated by a speculum in the first place. Both unprotected and protected sex can increase the chances of cervical cancer. With girls becoming sexually active at a younger age, now is not the time to be refusing to do smear tests. We can smoke, drink, vote, drive, have sex, get married, and get divorced. But looking after our own bodies is apparently not on the agenda.",
  "title": "Katie Jacobs: The NHS is wrong to refuse under-25s smear tests",
  "lead": "Katie Jacobs: Jade Goody's public discussion of her cancer has made women think of a checkup. But the NHS may refuse if they're under 25",
  "tags": [
    "society/health",
    "politics/health",
    "society/nhs",
    "science/cancer",
    "society/society",
    "media/jade",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "society/cancer"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/mar/05/health-health",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}