{
  "content": "Successive UK governments have reason to be proud of their achievements in the area of open data. However, to remain world-leading there is a need to continue to invest and innovate, extend and develop policy. Tuesday 1 November marks the fourth Open Data Institute (ODI) annual summit at the BFI in London, convening data innovators from around the world to share successes, challenges and solutions. At last year's ODI Summit, minister Matt Hancock called on the ODI to be a critical friend for government, and bring the voice of data businesses and innovators to the Cabinet Office. A year on, here are three areas where action by the UK government can help to support and promote a flourishing open data economy Strengthen our data infrastructure We are used to thinking of areas like transport and energy requiring physical infrastructure. From roads and rail networks to the national grid and power stations, we understand that investment and management of these vital parts of an infrastructure are essential to the economic wellbeing and future prosperity of the nation. This is no less true of key data assets. Our data infrastructure is a core part of our national infrastructure. From lists of legally constituted companies to the country's geospatial data, our data infrastructure needs to be managed, maintained, in some cases built and in all cases made as widely available as possible. To maximise the benefits to the UK's economy and to reduce costs in delivery of public services, the data we rely on needs to be adaptable, trustworthy, and as open as possible. A data infrastructure consists of data assets and the technology to store, share and use them; the organisations that operate and maintain them; the processes by which they are maintained; and guides describing how to use and manage the data. Trustworthy data infrastructure is sustainably funded and managed so it can be used in ways that benefit society. Good infrastructure is simply there when we need it but, at the moment, too much of our data infrastructure is unreliable, inaccessible or only available if you can pay for access. Data innovators struggle to get hold of data and to work out how they can best use it, while individuals do not feel that they are in control of their data. While we do have some excellent examples of infrastructure data from the likes of Companies House, Land Registry, Ordnance Survey and Defra, core parts of the data infrastructure that we need within the UK are missing, unreliable, or of a low quality. The government must invest here just as it invests in our other traditional infrastructure. Support and promote data innovation If we are to make best use of data, we need a bridge between academic research, public, private and third sectors, and a thriving startup ecosystem where new ideas and approaches can grow. We have learned that properly targeted challenges could identify potential savings for government \u2013 similar to Prescribing Analytics, an ODI-incubated startup which used publicly available data to identify \u00a3200m in prescriptions savings per year for the NHS \u2013 but, more importantly, translate that potential into procurable products and services that could deliver those savings. A data challenge series run at a larger scale, funded by Innovate UK, openly contested and independently managed, would stimulate the creation of new companies, jobs, products and services. It would also act as a forcing function to strengthen data infrastructure around key challenges, and raise awareness and capacity for those working to solve them. The data needed to satisfy the challenges would have to be made available and usable, bringing data innovation into government and bolstering the offer of the startups and SMEs who take part. Invest in data literacy In order to take advantage of the data revolution, policymakers, businesses and citizens need to understand how to make use of data. In other words, they must become data literate. Data literacy is needed through our whole educational system and society more generally. Crucially, policymakers are going to need to be informed by insights that can only be gleaned through understanding and analysing data effectively. We have to move the dial here. It is an investment we cannot afford to shirk. Strengthening our data infrastructure, supporting and promoting innovation using that infrastructure, and investing in widespread data literacy will be the only way to succeed as a nation in the 21st century. Sir Nigel Shadbolt is principal of Jesus College, Oxford, professorial research fellow in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Oxford, and chairman and co-founder of the Open Data Institute. Follow @Nigel_Shadbolt on Twitter To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media &amp; Tech Network membership. All Guardian Media &amp; Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \"Brought to you by\" \u2013 find out more here.",
  "title": "Three ways to grow the open data economy",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "technology/big-data",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "A modern digital state needs an effective data infrastructure. Sir Nigel Shadbolt calls on the government to support innovation and promote data literacy",
  "id": "media-network/2016/nov/01/three-ways-government-grow-open-data-economy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}