{
  "content": "Twitter bosses are to be questioned by MPs about complaints that they have failed to do enough to protect women from users posting violent and abusive threats. John Whittingdale, the Conservative chair of the committee, said on Tuesday that he expected the abuse directed at the Labour MP Stella Creasy and the feminist campaigner Caroline Criado-Perez to feature in an inquiry starting in the autumn. MPs on the committee agreed before the summer recess that they would hold an inquiry into harmful online content. Although it will primarily focus on issues such as pornography, Whittingdale said that Twitter executives were likely to be summoned to give evidence, and that MPs would want to ask about its response to the rape and death threats directed against women. Creasy and Criado-Perez have been the subject of particularly horrific abuse on Twitter in recent days, but their experience has highlighted a problem that many users of the site, especially women, have faced. Although Twitter has been criticised for its tardy response to the threats directed at Creasy and Criado-Perez, Whittingdale said he did not know enough about the case to be able to comment on it. But the legal position was already clear, he said. \"The law is perfectly adequate. If someone posts a message on Twitter saying he's going to rape you, that is a criminal offence already. The challenge is how you identify people and prevent it,\" he said. Whittingdale said it was \"wholly unrealistic\" to expect Twitter, or any other social media company, to employ people to monitor every single post. But he said there were questions to be asked about how quickly companies such as Twitter responded to complaints, and how willing they are to co-operate with the police when people commit an offence online. The cross-party committee, which has not met to discuss the recent complaints about Twitter, is expected to start taking evidence in October. It will also take evidence from internet service providers, because a major focus of the inquiry will be the proposals to protect children from online pornography announced by David Cameron last week.",
  "title": "Twitter chiefs to face MP committee over abusive threats to women",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/social-media",
    "politics/john-whittingdale",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "lifeandstyle/women",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Cross-party group to quiz Twitter executives over complaints that they have failed to protect women from online abuse",
  "id": "politics/2013/jul/30/twitter-mp-committee-threats-women",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}