{
  "content": "The right to life is the ultimate human right. One of the government's most important jobs is to protect it, and it needs to ensure that the measures it takes enable all of us to travel in safety and confidence. However, the threat of terror is not a trump card which allows governments to disregard all other human rights. Nor is it carte blanche to exercise the power of the state at the expense of civil liberties. In the past, we have sometimes seen governments get carried away \u2013 most notably, perhaps, with proposals to extend the period for detention without charge to 42 days. The argument that terror is a genuine and serious threat does not absolve the state from carefully designing and justifying its proposed solutions. Today, we are concerned to ensure that the latest proposals relating to body scanners and profiling in airports are properly constructed, justified and proportionate. The home secretary has said that full-body scanners will soon be used to screen passengers before they board flights. The scanner operators will see passengers as if they are naked. That this affects an individual's right to privacy is beyond doubt. Many of us may feel uneasy at the prospect. We might also be particularly concerned about, for example, the scanning of our children or older relatives. The question is: is this infringement of privacy justified and proportionate? The commission is keen to see more detail about how the proposed system would work in practice. What kind of training and security clearance will the scanner operators be required to have? Would the operator be of the same sex as the person being scanned? Would images be stored? If so, where and for how long? The answers to these questions will be crucial to judging whether the use of full-body scanners will work. When it comes to ascertaining whether it is justified, one major question comes to the fore: will it work to make us safer? We have asked government to provide the evidence. The home secretary has also raised the issue of \"targeted\" profiling \u2013 that is, subjecting certain people to more scrutiny, including searches, because they happen to have a particular set of personal characteristics. Our concern is that the practice of profiling is likely to lead to selection of people on the grounds of race, ethnicity or religion. The commission believes that this is divisive, discriminatory, unlawful, and in breach of international human rights standards. Once again, we have asked the government for the evidence which shows that profiling is an effective means of dealing with the threat of terrorism. Scanning on the basis of intelligence or suspicious behaviour is both more likely to be justified and lawful as well as the best way of making us safer. The government has acknowledged that its review will raise questions about equality and human rights, and has said that it will consider the issues very carefully. General statements of good intention are very welcome, but the next vital step will be to produce detail and evidence. The Equality and Human Rights Commission is keen to help government get this right.",
  "title": "Balancing security and rights | John Wadham",
  "lead": "John Wadham: Full-body scanners may be a valuable addition to airport security, but profiling is likely to prove unjustified and ineffective",
  "tags": [
    "world/air-transport",
    "uk/uksecurity",
    "politics/terrorism",
    "politics/transport",
    "uk/transport",
    "world/privacy",
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2010/jan/23/airport-body-scanners-security",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}