{
  "content": "Foursquare's latest partner is British music startup Songkick, whose database of music gigs will now be integrated into check-ins made using the social location service's mobile apps. Songkick is one of three new content partners for Foursquare, with the other two being ESPN for sports and MovieTickets.com for films. According to Songkick chief executive Ian Hogarth, the deals will provide important additional context for people's activity on Foursquare. \"When you check in to live music venues on Foursquare, it'll now display the bands playing there \u2013 the why along with the where,\" he says. Until now, Foursquare-using music fans have been restricted to checking in to places rather than events. For example, friends may see they're at the Shepherds Bush Empire, but not that they're watching the Black Crowes unless they specify that in a comment. Is having this context added automatically important? It may be for the music, film and sports industries, since it may enable Foursquare to provide them with more useful data about what gigs, movies and matches its users are watching, and provide scope for artists, studios and teams to reward people for checking in to specific events. The Songkick deal is particularly interesting, since social location is currently firmly on the music industry's radar. In the US, MTV has just launched its MTV Live &amp; Local app, which encourages fans to check in to gigs via Foursquare. There have been marketing campaigns using the rival Facebook Places service for Cheryl Cole and James Blunt, and there are even social location apps focused purely on music: Finnish service Flowd and US startup Superglued. The growth of Songkick's own service, which alerts music fans to upcoming gigs based on their music collections and their friends' activities, has been fuelled by its partnerships with other companies. Foursquare is just the latest to tap in to its live listings: other partners include SoundCloud, Topspin, Mobile Roadie, Yahoo UK and PRS for Music. The site claims to be the second largest live music website in the world behind only Live Nation/Ticketmaster, and its iPhone app generated more than 100,000 downloads in two weeks after its rlease in June 2011. In May, Hogarth told the Guardian that Songkick was firmly focused on discovery \"because it's still the biggest problem for live music, and most people still miss out on concerts because they just didn't know about them\". The partnership with Foursquare is just the latest manifestation of the company's ambition.",
  "title": "Foursquare taps into Songkick data for music gig check-ins",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/apps",
    "music/music",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media",
    "technology/startups",
    "technology/songkick",
    "technology/foursquare",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/smartphones",
    "technology/location-based-services"
  ],
  "lead": "Stuart Dredge: Social location service won't just know where its users are, but which band they're seeing",
  "id": "technology/appsblog/2011/aug/18/songkick-foursquare-music-apps",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}