{
  "content": "Facebook today revealed a series of improvements to its service on mobile devices in a move that lays the foundations for new revenue streams from retail stores, venues and small businesses. Mobile is seen as a powerful platform for the expansion of Facebook, particularly in the developing world where internet adoption is increasingly skipping desktop computers and growing rapidly on the mobile web. Addressing a packed hall at Facebook's headquarters in Palo Alto, California, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg revealed Facebook Deals, which allows stores, restaurants and businesses to offer promotions and discounts to users of Facebook's location tool, Places. Launched in the US in August and in the UK six weeks later, Places allows users to share their location with Facebook friends. Aware of consumers' privacy concerns, Facebook has insisted the service is fully opt-in, though the new service may give users more incentive to share their location. Facebook's launch partners for the new Deals service include clothing store Gap, which is giving away a pair of jeans to the first 10,000 Facebook users to check in to a Gap store, while McDonalds will donate $1 to its children's charity for each check-in. Deals will launch in the US initially but is likely to launch in the UK early next year. Users will show businesses a voucher on their mobile to claim deals. A spokesman was keen to emphasise users are not identified to business owners. \"Brands/venues/Place owners will only see how many people claimed deals and how many people checked in \u2013 similar to the way Ads works. They know how many people the ad will be shown to but not who it was shown to. will not get any other information about individual people that check in on Facebook.\" Zuckerberg announced that mobile use of Facebook has increased to 200 million people globally each month, a tenfold rise in one year. A new software development kit for iPhone and Android mobile developers will add features that enable them to include Facebook Deals in third-party apps. Facebook's head of mobile business, Henri Moissinac, told the Guardian the improvement could be interesting for developers. \"Augmented-reality apps like Layar will be able to visualise deals in real-time around a user's location,\" he said. Other improvements include adding the new Groups feature to mobiles and simplifying the log-in process between Facebook and other apps. Previously, users had to log in to switch between Facebook and other apps, like film site Netflix, but an extension of Facebook Connect means users can access the site from within the Facebook app with just one click. In May this year, Facebook launched a simplified image-free version of the site, Facebook Zero, that is free for users and designed to encourage heavier use by people in countries with expensive mobile data, such as Turkey.",
  "title": "Facebook extends mobile services",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/telecoms",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "business/telecoms",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "lead": "Facebook Deals allows businesses to offer promotions to users of Places tool, Groups added and login simplified",
  "id": "technology/2010/nov/03/facebook-deals-mobile",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}