{
  "content": "A survey published by BDO shows that 98% of councils use some form of social media. But what is the best way to connect with residents online? Tom Hoy, senior policy officer at Lambeth council, argued that community engagement is most successful when combining the best features of the offline and online worlds. He says: Without an offline dimension to engagement you will often end up with a talking shop where nothing gets done. And with no online dimension you can find it difficult to connect, sustain and scale a community in a meaningful way. This workshop aims to debunk some of the myths around online engagement and look at the innovative ways councils can build strong relationships: \u2022 What are the different ways councils can get online? \u2022 How can we let residents know what's going on through social media? \u2022 How can technology improve service delivery? \u2022 What can we do to make sure residents who are not online don't feel excluded? Join our experts from 12pm-2pm June 12 to explore how to get your council connected. Our expert panel includes social media consultants and local government officers. Post your questions now or take part on the day. Expert panel: Jacob Leverett is from Surrey county council's shift team, which is looking for innovative ways to provide better services. Kate Denham is a senior manager in the BDO local government advisory team. Ben Matthews is head of communications at Futuregov. Helen Reynolds is digital social media manager at Monmouthshire county council. Alison Hernandez is co-founder of Torbay Social Media Cafe and former executive lead for involved and healthy communities. She is also ward councillor for Shiphay with the Willows. John Popham is a social media consultant who runs surgeries around the north of England, and is a founding member of the Big Society in the North forum. He also manages the Our Digital Planet touring digital inclusion exhibition. Matthew Lund is senior policy and performance officer at Leeds city council. James Coltham is a web manager for the children and families department at the City of Edinburgh council. Glen Ocsko is community involvement and innovation manager at London Borough of Sutton. Edward Moore is chief executive of Symfonix, which produces tools to support community and stakeholder engagement. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Join the local government network for analysis, best practice and the latest job opportunities",
  "title": "Community engagement: how can councils interact with residents online",
  "lead": "Want to find out the best way to use online tools for community engagement? Join us 12 June 12pm-2pm to discuss",
  "tags": [
    "local-government-network/local-government-network-blog",
    "public-leaders-network/local-government-careers",
    "society/localgovernment",
    "society/society",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "public-leaders-network/public-leaders-network",
    "public-leaders-network/local-government"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "local-government-network/2013/jun/05/workshop-engaging-residents-online",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}