{
  "content": "As Google reels from stinging condemnation for its tax avoidance from Margaret Hodge's parliamentary committee, and the hi-tech companies are embarrassed by allegations of state surveillance, the general response has been one of astonished disbelief. But we should not be surprised. The \"iCapitalists\" have long been zealots for a radically neoliberal vision of capitalism. It is their skill at making this harsh approach palatable to the modern zeitgeist which will probably save their skin \u2013 though with potentially disastrous consequences for our economy. Big tech, originating in California's Silicon Valley, has always been about more than cutting-edge engineering. It embodies a value system that merges a counter-cultural 60s romantic individualism with a cold-eyed commitment to free markets. Apple's Steve Jobs, the Zen Buddhist of canny entrepreneurialism, captured the worldview with Apple's famous 1997 slogan: \"Here's to the crazy ones, the misfits, the rebels, the troublemakers \u2026\" And it is this rebellious pose that reconciled a whole swath of the educated professional classes \u2013 the \"creatives\" \u2013 to free-market capitalism. In the 1980s, it was besuited corporates who were in the vanguard of Thatcher's and Reagan's neoliberal revolution \u2013 people such as the hard-faced, downsizing financier Mitt Romney. The iCapitalists, however, presented a far more appealing vision to liberals \u2013 one of denimed democracy, of gender-blind and colour-blind egalitarianism. For many of us, Google's own Big Brother house-style offices, with their Play School sofas and pool tables, seemed the very epitome of a creative, \"happening\" workplace; while Facebook's Silicon Valley HQ was a mini-utopia of subsidised gyms, dentists, and personal stylists. But this is an egalitarian utopia only for the networked and highly educated, not for the many. For the iCapitalist culture is not so much liberal as libertarian, and is founded on the belief that we should be led by elite hi-tech businesses and their shinily packaged semi-conductors and microchips; the state, a lumbering, bureaucratic drag on creativity and innovation, has a minimal role. This worldview lies behind Eric Schmidt's defending Google's tax affairs with reference to the company being \"a key part of the electronic commerce expansion of Britain, which is driving a lot of economic growth for the country.\" It is not necessary, it seems, to worry about taxation, and indeed the state, as long as company profits are trickling down to the rest of us. The PayPal co-founder Peter Thiel has taken this anti-state view to its logical conclusion, and contributed funds to \"Seasteading\" \u2013 a project inspired by the libertarian writer Ayn Rand, to create mobile \"islands\" of entrepreneurs on cruise-ships and oil-rigs, where they can be free of tax and state regulations. As the iCapitalists have become richer, they have aspired to project this libertarian vision beyond their sunny, frisbee-friendly Californian campuses to society more generally. Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg has set up FWD.us to lobby American politicians. It has been pressing for looser rules on immigration \u2013 a cause his critics argue is primarily driven by company's appetite for foreign tech-engineers, and a cheap alternative to improving the American education system. Of course, we need hi-tech, and Britain should be investing more in the sector. But the iCapitalist vision of society is deeply flawed, and potentially destructive. It is based on the false premise that the tech industries are a triumph of and justification for pure laissez-faire economics \u2013 refusing to acknowledge, of course, that the US department of defence drove the development of Silicon Valley. Also, it erroneously assumes that economic growth can be driven by a small group of super-wealthy, highly educated individuals, producing technologies that allow employers to cut wage costs for the majority, while resisting taxation and redistribution. This was precisely the highly inegalitarian economic model that led governments to maintain consumption by allowing a debt build-up among us lesser mortals \u2013 contributing to the crisis of 2008. Since the financial crisis, the iCapitalists, like the bankers, have come under more scrutiny. They will clearly now have to pay more tax, at least in the UK, and they are under pressure elsewhere. And now we have the possibility that the tech companies have allowed the US government wide access to their users' data, something that they have denied. If true, it leave them open to the charge of gross hypocrisy; for despite their much-vaunted libertarianism, it seems, they can also collaborate with an overbearing state. It may be this scandal, rather than the tax-dodging, that undermines faith in big tech. But there is little sign of any rebellion yet. For the iCapitalist vision of liberation and creativity still resonates with many of us, and particularly the young. British polls show that those born since 1979 are more likely to be socially liberal on race, gender and sexuality, but also more pro-market and anti-state than their older peers. They are also less likely to engage in boycotts of companies guilty of tax avoidance. One explanation may be that this generation came of age when the iCapitalist vision seemed to be working and jobs were plentiful. And it may be some years before the hollowed-out neoliberal economy takes its toll and the flaws of iCapitalism are finally exposed.",
  "title": "The libertarian iCapitalists wouldn't have anything to do with the state \u2026 would they? | David Priestland",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "us-news/the-nsa-files",
    "us-news/nsa",
    "technology/google",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/computing",
    "us-news/us-political-lobbying",
    "business/taxavoidance",
    "business/corporate-governance",
    "business/business",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "world/world",
    "technology/silicon-valley"
  ],
  "lead": "David Priestland: Silicon Valley worships at the altar of laissez-faire, trickle-down economics. It's a flawed vision, but it speaks to a generation",
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/jun/19/libertarian-icapitalists-silicon-valley",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}