{
  "content": "Marco Arment, who had been Tumblr's employee number two, first published The Magazine on 11 October 2012.  He had spun the publication out of his work developing the Instapaper app for iOS, trying to perfect the experience of reading short articles on iPhones and iPads. But Instapaper was designed for reading other people's content, scraped from the web and presented in a far more legible format than the typical browser could manage. It provided Arment, an accomplished and popular technology blogger as well as programmer, no outlet for his own work, or that of other writers he enjoyed. Announcing the launch of the app, he wrote that \"I want this publication to exist as a reader and a writer.\" Technologically, The Magazine was elegant. Apple had launched its Newsstand app the year before, allowing publishers to sell subscriptions to magazines which would auto-renew periodically and download automatically while users slept. But few titles had taken advantage of the feature, and many of those that did were packaged in clunky, outdated apps. Vogue's April 2012 issue was more than 400MB, and the user experience left much to be desired. The first issue of the Magazine weighed in at around 1% of that, and was built on far simpler technologies. But it also presented a very different value proposition: $1.99 a month bought users access to a bi-weekly publication of just four to six articles. It was immediately different enough to spark a discussion about a whole new genre of publication, \"subcompact publishing\", a term coined by writer Craig Mod in analogy to the effect subcompact cars had on the American auto market. \"The clarity of The Magazine is exciting,\" Mod wrote. \"It's doubly exciting because it's precisely the sort of app at which incumbent publishers balk\u2026 We are the new customers: The new readers, the new writers, the new publishers. The Magazine is indeed cheaper, simpler, smaller, and more convenient than most other publishing apps.\" Simple-looking doesn't necessarily mean simple to run, however, and the Magazine didn't stay the same for long. For the second issue, Arment brought on Glenn Fleishman, a technology journalist who writes the Economist's Babbage blog, as executive editor. From then on, Arment took a back seat on the editorial side, and Fleishman, himself a perl and PHP programmer, was able to do a bit more on the web side of the publication. Then, in May, Arment sold The Magazine to Fleishman in its entirety. The move came as a surprise, particularly since it came just a month after he had sold Instapaper, still his primary occupation, to app incubator Betaworks. Fleishman promised that the publication would be \"committed to the same schedule of five features every two weeks, designed to appeal to folks with a broad curiosity (and an interest in technology) who want to learn things they don't already know and to hear points of view they may not routinely encounter.\" And he brought a new managing editor, Brittany Shoot, to help out. At the end of its first year, Fleishman appreciates the start Arment gave the publication. \"Marco used his own labor and expertise to create what I would estimate was a $200,000 to $300,000 app if one were to hire a firm to create it. It might cost much more, too, counting the time it would require to supervise an outside firm. That was a large financial advantage. It's our key challenge for the future: adding new features to the app and making it more flexible to deal with the number of issues and articles published so far.\" All the same, \"having more control is definitely easier in many ways. For Marco this was an interesting and successful experiment, but the production cycle wasn't of tremendous interest to him, and he handed over about 99% of the editorial tasks starting at issue 2. He and I had worked out an editorial approach within a few issues, and that's more or less what I've continued to pursue today: strong narrative non-fiction mostly, rather than descriptive or newsy features.\" Print would actually produce a return, rather than the other way around While still the poster child for subcompact publishing, The Magazine expanded on to the web shortly after its inception, and has offered downloads for e-readers since March. On Thursday, Fleishman announced a further expansion, syndicating one feature a week onto the blog Boing Boing. \"I've written for them for years,\" he says, \"and have been great supports of their work\u2026 They don't have an app, and they are sorting out what a 'blog' is while they have slowly bumped up their longer, commissioned features. \"So linking ourselves together loosely is an attempt to see where people are willing to pay for good reads. We think there's an increasing interest in that, and having a 'magazine' bundle every two weeks of 'good stuff to read' is an alternative to the flowing river at Boing Boing that they're sorting out as well.\" The Magazine is going back to the future, with a print edition forthcoming. \"We're testing the waters with an upcoming crowdfunded collection of our first year's work, and I hope to roll that into a quarterly print publication. Because we already pay all the costs of editorial out of the electronic version, print would actually produce a nice return above costs, rather than the other way around, and bring in some of the funds necessary to make the software side better. Ironic, that!\" The success of the publication has sparked imitators. Using services like TypeEngine, would-be publishers can very quickly produce something similar to The Magazine without needing the talents of their own Marco Arment. Some, like The Loop, show potential. Others don't. But as Arment wrote in response to suggestions that TypeEngine had taken a little too much inspiration from his app, \"there aren't any startups promising a turn-key supply of great content that attracts enough paying subscribers to fund it. You're on your own for that.\" \u2022 In August, Barack Obama announced that the US intelligence agencies would be making information on security surveillance directly available to the public - on its Tumblr",
  "title": "Tumblr creator's Magazine app celebrates first year \u2013 with print edition",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/apps",
    "media/media",
    "technology/tumblr",
    "media/magazines",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/kickstarter"
  ],
  "lead": "Cheaper, simpler, small - Marco Arment's magazine app is building a paid-for business around delivering six articles a fortnight. By Alex Hern<br /><br />",
  "id": "technology/2013/oct/11/tumblr-magazine-app-print",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}