{
  "content": "Casting a brief gaze back over 2009 and looking into my Magic 8 Ball for 2010, here are two tech trends that I'll be watching this year. Social television is definitely one trend to keep tabs on. With Twitter and Facebook, we're now sharing TV viewing in real time. In 2009, ITV integrated Twitter streams onscreen during an online broadcast of its sci-fi drama Primeval, and the network collected X Factor-related Twitter updates and hosted a live discussion on its website during the programme. Social television advocates talk about a dual-screen experience of people increasingly watching TV with a laptop so that they can chat with friends during programmes. We'll see many more social TV projects in 2010. Many will be dual-screen, whether the second screen is a laptop or iPhone, but as the internet increasingly becomes integrated into televisions, we won't need two screens to interact any more. One of the rumours that got the Apple faithful most excited in 2009 was the possibility that Steve Jobs would release an over-grown iPod touch \u2013 a tablet. Media companies are falling over themselves to prepare their magazines, music and other media for the mythical tablet. In 2010, we will see media \"slates\", as HP's global chief technology officer Phil McKinney refers to them. They won't be like the tablet PCs that Microsoft has been flogging since 2001, which are convertible full-powered laptops. Slates will be touch-screen devices designed for music, videos and multimedia text content. The demand for the media slate is being driven not only by the tech side but also by content companies. Newspapers and magazines want a new device to sell premium content packages, and the most concrete rumour about Apple's plans is that music companies want to recreate the album for the digital age. Their aim is to bundle videos and other content along with tunes, to entice consumers to splash the money they used to spend on CDs \u2013 rather than the cents and pence they spend on individual digital downloads. If anything holds up these media slates, it probably won't be the technology, but rather the licensing and revenue-sharing agreements between the device makers and the content owners. Those are two of the big trends I'll be watching. What's on your radar?",
  "title": "Tools of the trade: new year devices",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/microsoft",
    "technology/television",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "tv-and-radio/the-x-factor",
    "media/newspapers",
    "technology/tablet-computer",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Watch out for the growth of social television and Apple's much-anticipated take on tablet technology",
  "id": "media/2010/jan/04/tools-of-the-trade",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}