{
  "content": "After the criticism piled on Facebook about its new Beacon advertising program (see our story 'Facebook is accused of spoiling Christmas spirit') the company last night sent out a missive to journalists about some changes in direction. The problem, if you didn't keep up with the snowball, was that Beacon - a third-party website advertising system - was invading people's privacy. If you were on a Beacon site and did some kind of action (say, buying a DVD) that site would try and feed back the information to the Facebook news feed (so your friends would see a message saying \"Bobbie just bought Rome Season 2 from Amazon\"). A pop-up would appear on your screen giving you the chance to opt out of having your actions made public - and if you didn't tell it not to broadcast your movements, it would assume you had opted in. Now, after a groundswell of anger - not least from MoveOn.org - the Facebook gang have decided to relent... at least a little. The new approach, they say, mans that \"no stories will be published without users proactively consenting\". Users will have clear options in ongoing notifications to either delete or publish. No stories will be published if users navigate away from their home page. If they delay in making this decision, the notification will hide and they can make a decision at a later time. If a user does nothing with the initial notification on Facebook, it will hide after some duration without a story being published. When a user takes a future action on a Beacon site, it will reappear and display all the potential stories along with the opportunity to click \"OK\" to publish or click \"remove\" to not publish. Sounds good, right? Well, it's a move in the right direction at least. Of course - as David Weinberger pointed out - Facebook was never going to drop Beacon completely: the site needs to work out more ways of making money if it's going to live up to that insanely huge $15bn valuation everyone keeps talking about. And, crucially, there's no \"sorry\" in the announcement: just a taciturn piece of politics: \"We appreciate feedback from all Facebook users\". Now watch while everyone tries to claim credit for getting Mark Zuckerberg and friends to change their minds.",
  "title": "Facebook relents - a little - on Beacon",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "After a revolt by users, Facebook has changed the way its new advertising system works",
  "id": "technology/blog/2007/nov/30/facebookrelentsalittleonb",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}