{
  "content": "A little misinformation meme started spreading around today that I want to comment on. I think you'll see why. Earlier today someone called Brooks Bayne picked up on the fact that a few Twitter users have grown massively in popularity recently - including @guardiantech (which is moderated mostly by me). His hypothesis: that somebody was creating spam accounts to boost their audience, and then following the other people to make it look less obvious). Sounded fair enough - after all, some people will do anything for a bit of validation. But the account he singled out for suspicion? You guessed it. I was trying to do a quick analysis of this to see if there was one account that was followed more than others to determine the source. After looking at 50 pages of these bogus followers, I found that @guardiantech was at the top of the list. This seems to be corroborated by the numbers on Twitterholic. I don't know who @guardiantech is, or if they have the resources to be behind this, but it's worth noting. Now, I've definitely seen our Twitter crowd grow by an order of magnitude over the past month, from a few thousands users to more than 60,000 today. I didn't know why, apart from a few basic things - creating connections, sharing our best content with people and responding (where appropriate) to messages from other users. But I certainly know that I haven't been scripting spam. Twitter chief executive Ev Williams responded by offering his thoughts on why we've seen big jumps recently: Each of these accounts is listed in our Suggested Users list, which is now the last page of our signup process. The followers aren't fake, they're just new users -- which is why they don't have updates or profile icons. The reason we created this feature is because lots of people sign up to Twitter but aren't following anyone, so we're trying to help get them started. This is a v 1.0 of this functionality, and we hope to make it a lot better. But I don't believe there's anything nefarious going on. That was interesting; I hadn't realised we were a suggested user. Although I think there are plenty of spam accounts on Twitter I know there are plenty of newbies too, and if twitter.com/guardiantech was being promoted by the site itself that explains a lot (you might have noticed, but we're pretty obsessed by Twitter right now). But what gets my goat is the statement that \"I don't know who @guardiantech is, or if they have the resources to be behind this, but it's worth noting\". Apparently it's worth accusing us of something without bothering to find out who we are or asking us whether we've involved. How incredibly lazy is that? And, to make things worse, he even responded grumpily to somebody who said he hadn't done his legwork by claiming \"i've done the research\". Ha! I'm not knocking Brooks for not knowing who we are - even I'm not so egotistical to expect that somebody in LA can't survive without knowing the details of successful British news websites. But I am saying he started throwing around accusations without bothering to find out the facts. Ask around: most people who are Guardian regulars will probably balk at the idea that we'd bother with something like this. And there are, after all, plenty of people to ask. Brooks could have even visited our Twitter page and clicked on the link to the Guardian to get an idea of who were are. And hey, he could have even bothered to actually used Twitter to ask us a question. I respond to messages, and a handful of characters would have cleared that little thing up without him even having to break a sweat. So, to clear things up: the Guardian hasn't created lots of fake Twitter followers in order to try and win some tedious popularity contest. And if Brooks Bayne had bothered to ask, he'd have realised that his accusation had no foundation.",
  "title": "Response to claims about fake Twitter followers",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "The Guardian has been accused of creating fake Twitter followers to make itself look more popular - a falsehood worth nipping in the bud",
  "id": "technology/blog/2009/feb/18/twitter-fake-follower-false-accusation",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}