{
  "content": "The dismissal of Acta, the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, by the European parliament has left the treaty's opponents delighted, and its supporters \u2013 who principally work in the industries that rely on copyright and trademarks, whether virtual or physical, for their living \u2013 downhearted. Acta's creators had the poor luck \u2013 or lack of foresight \u2013 to create their baby in what feels like the Jurassic age of the social internet. They also made the bad decision to negotiate it in secret \u2013 the sort of thing that drives conspiracy theorists wild, but which is also sure to get anyone's antennae a bit twitchy. After all, if an agreement is for everyone's good, then why do its terms have to be kept secret? (The answer \u2013 that multipartite negotiations are kept secret because many sides adopt extreme negotiating positions they might not want publicised just in order to, well, negotiate \u2013 is inconvenient, but true.) What is, or was, Acta? In essence, it wants to be a subset of the World Trade Organisation, but dealing only with copyright and trademarks. Some people have the idea that it was solely about shutting down internet sites and trying to stop content piracy; that's only a sliver of it. Acta wanted to deal with physical goods too \u2013 pharmaceuticals, bags, shoes, anything that gets counterfeited and moved across borders (most countries have their own laws to deal with counterfeiting inside their borders.) Acta began its life in 2006, as part of a bipartite conversation between the US and Japan. The European Union and Canada pitched in the same year; official negotiations began in 2008, also involving Australia, New Zealand, South Korea, Singapore, Mexico and Morocco. We got wind of it at the Guardian and \u2013 using a draft that appeared on WikiLeaks \u2013 pointed out that as far as could be understood (because of course the negotiations were still secret), Acta's strictures on cross-border intellectual property theft might mean that customs agents would have the right to examine your iPod, and the songs on it, as you entered any signatory country. Absurd? Overblown? The supporters of Acta said that such ideas were crazy, nobody would take things to those extremes, you'd never get your iPod searched and seized just because you might be carrying a few counterfeit songs. Then again, I'm sure that much the same was said when the UK signed the extradition treaty with the US. Perhaps someone could ask Richard O'Dwyer and Gary McKinnon. There were good intentions behind Acta. No, really. This will be hard for some to countenance, but it is useful to be able to co-ordinate the prosecution of the production of fake pharmaceuticals that have arrived in one country, after being shipped from another, and made in yet another. Acta could give that sort of case coherence, and simplify prosecution. You don't have to have watched The Third Man to know such fakes are bad. But Acta ran into problems there too; countries such as India were concerned that the big pharmaceuticals companies, which protect their profits aggressively, would have banned the production or import of cheap \"generic\" drugs which have the same chemical formula and effect as the branded ones. However, it was over the measures applying to the internet that things really got hairy \u2013 and that has been building up in a manner that Clay Shirky, the guru of the social, is doubtless nodding his head at. Shirky, author of Here Comes Everybody, would recognise what happened: a social crowd formed online with one aim, of killing Acta. The treaty's aim regarding the internet was that sites in one country that infringed the copyrights of rightsholders (people, companies) in another could easily be shut down. At present, it's pretty difficult; some countries just don't have laws to that effect, creating the net equivalent of offshore tax havens, housing sites that profit by selling ads and let anyone download the (ripped-off) content. Acta wanted a simpler way to shut those down. Similarly, as far back as 2008, the US trade representative Sean Spicer was saying that the cross-border content inspection stuff that opponents said could be applied to your iPod was really about large-scale copyright infringement \u2013 \"which can frequently involve criminal elements\". But of course if you stick together, the idea that you're stopping people copying stuff, and that you're looking to close down websites, you're going to make yourself unpopular with the easily mobilised online groups of \u2026 well, lots of people. Especially the ones who like getting stuff for free. Thus it was that Anonymous came out very strongly against Acta, and the lobbying against Acta turned ferocious. It was comparable to Sopa (the Stop Online Piracy Act), except that was US-based, debated in the open, and had only one aim \u2013 to shut down sites outside the US infringing US copyrights. That it only took a day of protest to kill it shows the US political system's weakness, and the internet's strength. Acta, by contrast, is much more complex, and the European parliament's sudden discovery of democratic accountability to all the people who have protested, while welcome, shows that it's still not a very effective theatre for politics. Effective politics would have watered down or changed Acta long ago, to make the internet strictures less strong. But high-level secretly negotiated treaties don't work like that. They're all or nothing, and in the past it used to be simple: they got pushed through, and it was all. But we're in a different age now. If you can't get your laws passed with some consent, and there's any way of routing around them online, then people will. (See: Pirate Bay.) Acta didn't have to die, but its creators never stood a chance against the internet tidal wave.",
  "title": "Acta didn't stand a chance in the age of the social internet | Charles Arthur",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/acta",
    "world/world",
    "law/intellectual-property",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/eu",
    "world/europe-news"
  ],
  "lead": "Charles Arthur: The anti-counterfeiting treaty had some good intentions behind it \u2013 but its online strictures couldn't just be forced through",
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/jul/05/acta-anti-counterfeiting-treaty",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}