{
  "content": "The supermodel Naomi Campbell yesterday won a landmark privacy ruling against the Daily Mirror which could have lasting implications for the way the media deals with public figures. In the most important privacy case since the implementation of the Human Rights Act, Ms Campbell was awarded \u00a33,500 damages after the Mirror revealed she was a drug addict. The law lords ruled that though the tabloid was entitled to reveal that Ms Campbell was an addict, because she had always made a point of distancing herself from drugs, it had committed a breach of confidence by revealing details of her treatment and printing a photograph of her outside a meeting of Narcotics Anonymous. The Mirror's editor, Piers Morgan, led criticism of the law lords' ruling, describing it as a \"backdoor privacy law\". He said: \"This is a very good day for lying, drug-abusing prima donnas who want to have their cake with the media and the right to then shamelessly guzzle it with their Cristal champagne\". Other tabloid executives said they feared the ruling could hamper expos\u00e9s because they could be sued for revealing intimate details which backed up true stories. Ms Campbell, 33, had conceded the Mirror was within its rights to reveal in February 2001 that she was receiving treatment for drug addiction. But she claimed the paper had overstepped the mark by revealing details and printing the photograph. Yesterday the five law lords overturned a decision in the appeal court last year that publication was justified in the public interest because she had courted publicity and claimed she did not take drugs. Three of the lords ruled in the supermodel's favour, while two backed the Mirror. Lord Hope of Craighead, who backed Ms Campbell, said: \"Despite the weight that must be given to the right to freedom of expression that the press needs if it is to play its role effectively, I would hold that there was here an infringement of Miss Campbell's right to privacy that cannot be justified.\" Baroness Hale of Richmond added: \"People trying to recover from drug addiction need considerable dedication and commitment _ Blundering in when matters are at a fragile stage may do great harm.\" The implementation of the Human Rights Act in UK law in October 2000 left considerable uncertainty about the extent to which the individual's right to privacy should dictate what the media can publish. Yesterday's judgment did little to clarify. Ms Campbell expressed relief, saying: \"What's important for me is that people in recovery should be free to receive treatment without fear of press intrusion.\" Her lawyer, Keith Schilling, said: \"It is not only a vindication for her personally, but more importantly, represents a real advantage for the rights of people to maintain impor tant elements of their privacy,, particularly when related to therapy and people who need to have treatment.\" The editor of the Guardian, Alan Rusbridger, said: \"The judges performed a balancing exercise between privacy and free speech. It would be better if people felt confident enough that the Press Complaints Commission would perform a similar balancing act.\" Mirror Group Newspapers said it was considering taking the case to the European court. Privacy debate, page 12 Piers Morgan profile, page 13 Leader comment, page 25 MediaGuardian.co.uk",
  "title": "Privacy ruling sets new press limit",
  "lead": "The supermodel Naomi Campbell yesterday won a landmark privacy ruling against the Daily Mirror which could have lasting implications for the way the media deal with public figures. By Steven Morris , Claire Cozens and Owen Gibson",
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/daily-mirror",
    "media/medialaw",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "fashion/naomi-campbell"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2004/may/07/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}