{
  "content": "Everyone knows they ought to examine the small print of any contract they sign. Few actually do. We are especially cavalier about giving our consent for things we haven't read in order to access services online. Nearly always there is a box somewhere on the website seeking confirmation that users have understood the terms and conditions. Usually, when we tick that box to say \"yes\", we are lying. Does it matter? The answer depends on whether or not we care what happens to data about ourselves, our habits, our purchases, our preferences. The hidden price of most ostensibly \"free\" web services is some surrender of privacy. It is time the terms of that trade were more openly negotiated. To an extent, that is starting to happen. Facebook is in the process of hurriedly changing the privacy regime it offers users after coming under attack by regulators and consumer activists. Late last year, Facebook changed default settings on accounts in a way that pushed mountains of information people had uploaded about themselves into wider public view. There was an immediate backlash and the company is now expected to make it easier for people to hide themselves away. Facebook is also being pushed into a retreat over technology that mines its pages for information to share with other websites. The company has tended to operate on the assumption that whatever users post on their pages is fair game to be spread liberally around the web. That, executives are now starting to realise, is not what people thought they were signing up for. (Although technically, by checking the necessary boxes, signing up for it is exactly what they did do.) The tension is hard-wired into Facebook's business model and indeed into the models of countless other online services: social networking, content-sharing, search. The culture of the web demands that these tools come without a price tag. But they are not public services. They are commercial enterprises that want, quite reasonably, to make money. Since they cannot charge entry fees, they harvest data, a commodity that can be traded with other sites or used as a lure for advertisers. The more personal detail a site has about its users, the more it can charge third parties to make sales pitches to them. Most web users have no idea of the extent to which companies routinely monitor their behaviour online, scanning emails for key words, crawling around their computer's memory to see what kinds of sites they like, remembering where they have been and clocking who they communicate with most. The purpose of all of this snooping is forensically to tailor marketing messages to an individual's particular requirements. A user of Google's gmail service, for example, who emails friends to discuss a holiday will have adverts for travel sites embedded in the reply. This, the companies insist, is part of what makes them great services. Seeing adverts for things you want is, after all, surely better that seeing adverts for things you don't want. There is, meanwhile, no great clamour for these services to charge for access. So there is no alternative revenue stream. Facebook has 500 million users. Perhaps those people simply don't grasp what is happening with their data. But, just as plausibly, they don't really care. One reason companies feel entitled to invade their customers' privacy is because the customers appear to seize on every available opportunity to invade their own privacy. One of the most dramatic cultural changes of the last decade is the way in which it has become normal to publish the content of personal interactions. Intimacy used to be defined by the fact of an action or conversation taking place with no witnesses. That is no longer true. Intimate moments can be shared with potentially millions of people. Arguably, the sense of entitlement we feel to conduct much of our lives in a secret, personal realm is a relatively recent innovation. Before the 20th century, the kind of privacy we now take for granted \u2013 having endless rooms of our own \u2013 would have seemed like strange seclusion; demanding it would have been a sign of eccentricity or aristocratic caprice. Perhaps new technology is sending the pendulum back. We are entering an age where everybody knows, and is entitled to know, what everybody else is up to. That is certainly the impression we get when newspapers report private conversations and publish intimate text messages between pairs of consenting adult lovers. There is not, it seems, much currency in the belief, rooted in liberal ethics as well as social protocol, that certain things are simply nobody else's business. But privacy is a wonderful innovation. It should not be surrendered lightly. That realisation does appear to be dawning on consumers, regulators and politicians. But so far, in the UK at least, the emphasis has been overwhelmingly on privacy violations by the state. That is because, throughout history, state intrusion into citizens' personal lives has been a tool of repression. The impulse to check such intrusion is behind the inclusion in the Liberal Democrat-Conservative coalition agreement of plans to regulate CCTV, scale back government databases and scrap ID cards. Those are all welcome reforms. But the last government did not build an apparatus of surveillance with the primary objective of crushing political dissent in the manner of the old East German Stasi. It did it, for the most part, under the apprehension \u2013 often misguided \u2013 that public services would be made more efficient: cameras would fight crime; ID cards prevent fraud; databases speed up delivery. That doesn't mean the government was right to overlook privacy issues. It was derelict in doing so. It is none the less worth remembering that the state has followed the private sector in assuming that most people don't care about privacy as long as they get the desired product \u2013 a safer street or a snazzier Facebook profile. The fact that many people undervalue their personal data does not stop it being a precious commodity. Nor does it diminish the responsibility of those with the power to collect data to seek permission. Consent must never be presumed. That principle must apply in the marketplace just as it does to the state.",
  "title": "Privacy is precious and we should protect it | Editorial",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Observer editorial: Privacy is precious and we should protect it",
  "id": "commentisfree/2010/may/23/editorial-privacy-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}