{
  "content": "Fiat Chrysler's recall of more than 1.4m of its Jeeps so they can be fitted with a software patch to make them safe from having the controls taken over remotely, draws attention to an unnerving fact: any modern car is a network of anything up to 70 powerful computers that happen to be mounted on wheels and armoured in a tonne or more of steel. Every new car sold in the past few years is running about twice as much code as the whole of Facebook. Last week's recall is the first time a car manufacturer has been forced to acknowledge that modern cars are at risk from remote hacking while they are in motion. It will not be the last. Panic is not going to help anyone here, but this does mark the emergence of a potentially very serious problem. Fiat Chrysler's hand was forced by the release of a video in which two security researchers, cackling over their laptops, take control of a modern Jeep as it drives in heavy traffic 10 miles from where they are. They switch on the air conditioning, and turn up the radio. Then they switch off the engine. The driver, although he agreed to the prank, is completely helpless until they condescend to switch it on again. All this is accomplished without wires, and without any special equipment added to the car. The researchers only needed a laptop, a mobile phone and the internet address of the car they were targeting. You may ask why a car needs an internet address in the first place. The bad answer is that lots of other cars have them now, so any new model will want one. The good answer is that computer networks are transforming the world, and in many ways to our benefit. Networks, by their nature, have a tendency to grow \u2013 and to grow more valuable as they do. But they have to be secure; and since it is impossible to make them entirely secure, they must also be designed to fail gracefully and as safely as possible. This requires changes in engineering culture, but also in the wider corporate culture: companies that make things need to learn the hard lessons about openness that have been forced onto software companies in the past 20 years. It took the mainstream software industry years to understand that rewarding reports of security holes with bounties, rather than letting them be sold on the dark market, is sensible and necessary. We do not have that time now that software is so ubiquitous that it is invisible. We are moving towards a world where almost everything will have a computer inside it, and those computers will want to talk to the outside world, either to receive instructions or to report on what is happening around them. This is what is meant by the internet of things. How can we stop it becoming an internet of things that can kill us, or spy on us? The first networks of the internet were very easily hacked because the engineers who built them expected their own cooperative and trusting norms to be widespread in the outside world. We know better now. Security has been painfully \u2013 and painfully slowly \u2013 retrofitted into the internet protocols we use, at great expense. Software still is not entirely safe or reliable: only last month the New York stock exchange went down for hours and there was no malicious intent involved. But with cars, or household appliances, or even medical equipment, standards can be worryingly lower. The financial and cultural incentives often push towards Facebook's slogan \"move fast and break things\". That may be a way to make money, but it is no way to be an engineer on whom society depends. Regarding these problems as purely technological will not solve them. They are the technological expression of cultural and ethical attitudes. There is a manifesto for programmers that urges them to remember that the code they write \"will be used in ways [they] cannot anticipate, in ways it was not designed, and for longer than it was ever intended\", and to recognise that it \"will be attacked by talented and persistent adversaries who threaten our physical, economic and national security\". That is a start. But companies and governments, too, must realise that if a world of interconnected, highly capable and almost intelligent widgets is to be safe, they must be constantly expecting that it will be unsafe, and actively collecting knowledge about the ways in which it can \u2013 and will \u2013 be dangerous. One could almost say they should adopt the safety-first mentality of the airline industry, except that earlier this year one safety researcher managed to reach the controls of an airliner by plugging his laptop into the entertainment system.",
  "title": "The Guardian view on car computer hacking: act now | Editorial",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/internet-of-things",
    "technology/motoring",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet-safety",
    "technology/cybercrime",
    "world/road-safety",
    "world/world",
    "technology/data-computer-security"
  ],
  "lead": " Car computer hackers have exposed how fragile network security is on many of the devices we rely on. We must stop the internet of things turning from good to harm",
  "id": "commentisfree/2015/jul/26/the-guardian-view-on-car-computer-hacking-act-now",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}