{
  "content": "Of course, the naysayers are already suggesting that gamification is dead. The hot tech trend of 2010 (or 2009 if you were a bit early. 2006 if you were, like, totally ahead of the curve) refers to the use of game mechanics in web sites, services and applications, and it's actually illegal to mention it without then immediately referencing the social location service FourSquare. I think there's a bylaw that now allows you to get away with Gowalla, though. Or EpicWin if you have a really good solicitor. Anyway, last month game researcher Sebastian Deterding gave a great talk at the Playful conference in London, entitled 'Pawned: Gamification and its Discontents', which suggested that simply adding badges and high score tables to a website didn't make it a game \u2013 or fun. The problem is, game mechanics don't actually always make games more fun, let alone banking websites. That said, the whole debate about bringing competition and reward into otherwise mundane activities has led to a lot of interesting applications. I'm very into the idea of 'the gamification of education' because I hated school. It said nothing to me about my life, because between the ages of 11 and 16 my life was computer games. And a bit of hip-hop. For this reason, I love MIT's scratch project which aims to get kids developing games. I also wish that Lee Sheldon's decision to replace grades with experience points on his game design course at Indiana University would be extended to ALL schools. I might have mastered quadratic equations if there was a chance I'd level up as a result. Two recent developments in this area have caught my eye. First up, Scottish games company 3MRT is bringing its online education quizzes to the iPhone. The InQuizitor web app has been around for a few years, providing GCSE syllabus questions in a gaming context. The studio will soon launch 12 iPhone and iPod Touch apps based around subjects on the national curriculum, combining question and answer sessions with gameplay rewards. Brilliantly, 3RMT is made up of ex-members from the original GTA development team, though sadly it's unlikely that the InQuizitor apps will allow you to run people over while attempting multiple choice questions on the French Revolution. Meanwhile, American Express has just launched its first UK iPhone game. In Cash IQ, players complete a range of brain training mini-games designed to test your mathematical and memory skills \u2013 indeed, just the sort of mathematical and memory skills you need to understand the average credit card terms and conditions booklet. Developed by experienced mobile games studio Fishlabs, it's quite diverting, even if it is a not-very-thinly-veiled advert for the Platinum Cashback Credit Card. As such, it represents both the gamification of financial services and the gamification of marketing. My two other favourite new concepts represent opposing ends of 'the gamification of food'. 4Food is a healthy fast food joint that's just opened on New York's Madison Avenue. Hungry Manhattanites can head to the website to create their own sandwiches and burgers from a list of ingredients, then pick them up in the restaurant. If their creation is good, they can share the concept with friends online, and when anyone else orders one, the amateur burger chef responsible earns points. Collect enough, and you can claim free food. This brilliantly absolves the restaurateur of two major responsibilities: building word-of-mouth buzz and actually devising its own menu. A slightly more worthy concept comes from the product development company, Teague. Its designers were worried about water consumption among workmates so rigged a simple meter to the office taps, they then added an iPad app which measured and compared the amounts each worker got through, effectively shaming guzzlers and rewarding thrifty H2O hoarders with peer respect. You can read about the experiment, watch a video and learn how it has led to a campaign for water charities here. Of course, whether or not any of these actually qualify as games is an interesting ongoing question. Personally, I would prefer to live in a world of experience points rather than grades, in which every task, however menial, could benefit me with unlockable achievements. Certainly, in my experience, school might have been a whole lot more fun.",
  "title": "Gamification: it's still going on...",
  "lead": "Points, badges, high score tables \u2013 for everything...",
  "tags": [
    "technology/games",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/gamesblog/2010/nov/17/games-social-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}