{
  "content": "The failure by police to investigate the hacking of the murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler's phone was unacceptable and is \"a matter of deep regret\", an internal investigation has concluded. Surrey police officers may not have pursued the News of the World about information gleaned from a message left on her voicemail \"because of the potential consequences\", the inquiry report says. But it is more likely the matter was not recognised as illegal because phone hacking was not a widely used term at the time of her disappearance in 2002, and the scale of the tabloid's use of the practice was unknown at the time, it adds. The internal investigation, Operation Baronet, found there was \"no evidence to suggest that there was any collusion between Surrey police and the NoW\" other than some uncorroborated evidence that concern had been raised within the Milly investigation team that nothing was being done about the hacking by the tabloid. Investigators concluded that hacking was not recognised as an illegal act by those leading the missing persons inquiry at the time, and it was not considered a priority as all effort and energy was \"rightly focused on finding Milly\". Nevertheless, the report says: \"The failure to investigate remains a matter of deep regret to Surrey police primarily because it added to the pain and anguish felt by the Dowler family.\" Glenn Mulcaire, an investigator paid around \u00a3100,000 a year by the now defunct paper, admitted hacking Milly's phone after a criminal investigation was launched in 2011. He told a judge during sentencing that he believed he had the \"blessing\" of the police because it would assist their hunt for the missing schoolgirl. \"He was not aware that any story would be published in relation to the interception of Milly Dowler,\" his barrister told the judge at the Old Bailey. \"He thought the information would be given to the police. There could be circumstances in which a story could have resulted, that could be secondary to the finding of Milly Dowler.\" Mulcaire told news executives at the paper that one of the voicemails he had hacked was from a recruitment agency in Telford inviting the schoolgirl for an interview at a computer printer factory. The paper scrambled a team of reporters and photographers in the hope of a world exclusive revealing Milly's whereabouts, only to learn later that the recruiter had phoned the wrong number. Milly, 13, was snatched from the street while on her way from school to her home in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, in March 2002. The serial killer Levi Bellfield is serving a whole-life tariff after being found guilty of abducting and killing her. The internal inquiry report notes that the Dowler investigation remains the largest the force has ever undertaken. It says the initial senior investigating officer, DCI Stuart Gibson, was dedicated but \"inexperienced\" and not trained for the role. Concerns were raised within the force and he was eventually replaced by the then head of CID, DCS Craig Denholm. During the course of the initial missing persons inquiry, it became apparent to some officers that Dowler's phone had been hacked by the News of the World. One officer, DCI Maria Woodall, told investigators that she remembered a conversation with either Denholm or Gibson on 14 April or 15 April 2002, where she and a colleague raised concerns the apparent immunity NoW was enjoying over the hacking. \"She says she was advised no action would be taken because there was a need to keep the media onside,\" the report says. According to the report, there is no record of any decision about the News of the World hacking, and neither Denholm or Craig recall such a conversation. Denholm says he was not aware of the hacking until 2011 when it emerged in a report in the Guardian. However, documentation exists proving knowledge of the hacking within the force. A reference to \"interception\" of Milly's phone was made in a briefing note prepared for the then deputy chief constable Peter Fahy \u2013 now Sir Peter Fahy and a former chief constable of Greater Manchester police \u2013 for a meeting with journalists in the Crime Reporters Association in July 2002. Fahy told investigators that he may have seen the note but did not recall it, and the possibility of a criminal offence did not occur to him at the time. Investigators found several versions of the briefing document, with certain versions referring to \"press who illegally intercepted Milly's phone\". Other versions of the document show the word \"illegally\" had been removed. The investigators did not establish who had edited and re-edited the document.",
  "title": "Police failure to investigate Milly Dowler phone hacking 'unacceptable'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/milly-dowler",
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "uk/police",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/media",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Surrey police say their decision not to investigate hacking of murdered schoolgirl's phone is 'matter of deep regret'",
  "id": "uk-news/2016/sep/08/police-failure-to-investigate-milly-dowler-phone-hacking-unacceptable",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}