{
  "content": "The great newspaperman Francis Williams once said: \"The daily press would never have come into existence as a force in public and social life had it not been for the need of men of commerce to advertise. Only through the growth of advertising did the press achieve independence.\" Sometime in the latter half of the last century this sentiment got lost and the role of editorial church to advertising state got muddied. The perception of advertising to journalism moved from symbiont to parasite. This was largely down to the commercial success of the pre-internet news brands. Prior to the rise of the commercial internet the demand and supply mechanic worked in the publishers' favour and industry profitability was a given. Fast-forward to today and we are seeing an entirely new set of dynamics. Oversupply in the news marketplace, the existence of the BBC as a competitive online news brand and the disparate commercial models in operation \u2013 paywalls, sponsored content, ad-funded, trust-funded \u2013 have led us to the point where a unified commercial model between the news industry and the advertising industry seems only a distant possibility. The current models in operation have led to differing levels of commercial success for news brands but the one element to remain constant is the inexorable increase in their content migrating off their own branded platforms onto mass distribution platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and Google. It's easy to view this migration through the lazy lens of the \"death of press\" but, actually, we might be witnessing its salvation. The commercial balance between owned news content and the social distribution platforms holds the key not only to the continued profitability of news brands but also to the continued integrity of quality journalism. In July of this year Michael Wolff wrote an article for the MIT Technology Review in which he imagines a future where \"There is no New York Times, there are just New York Times articles\". In other words, social media's dominance in mobile leads to a scenario where the majority of the audience reading New York Times content never visit its website or buy a copy of the newspaper. This is of course taking a trend to an extreme conclusion. However even the most robust of the news brands' owned platforms will be seeing more of their content consumed off-site and naturally the money will follow. In the US last year Facebook alone accounted for over a third (37%) of all mobile display advertising with journalistic content being a mainstay of the newsfeed. Regardless of the rates of migration there is no denying that right now there is an inflection point in the news business as the news brands and the social platforms try to come to a commercial understanding. Facebook's Instant Articles, Google and Twitter's response and Apple's News app are currently nascent and feeling their way into the complex advertising ecosystem, but also overshadowed by regulatory suspicion of their market dominance. Initiatives like these and the attendant revenue share deals currently being struck around journalistic content will lay much of the foundation for the future profitability of news brands. There are easy lessons to be learned from parallel scenarios, such as the music industry a decade ago, where accepting inequitable revenue shares from new distribution platforms inflicted long-term damage on a category that is only now beginning to claw its way back to profitability. As an optimist and a believer in the equitability of the media industry let me suppose for the moment that these current deals provide the foundation for a news industry that is both profitable and independent. So what are the implications of this migration in the short to medium term? A vindication of open models When the paywalls went up for mass market news brands it was hard to foresee the extent of the migration from owned sites to social distribution platforms. The frustration engendered by encountering links to content on Facebook and Twitter that turn out to be behind a wall is real and the model is anachronistic. In a scenario where revenue share deals through the likes of Instant Articles become a major source of revenue, those brands whose content lie behind walls will fall behind. Bilateral benefit The commercial relationship between news brands and distribution platforms needs to be mutually beneficial. Clearly, Facebook and Google have proven and profitable revenue models but for the likes of Twitter, which acts as the conduit for news for a vast audience, the ability to effectively monetise news content has the potential to radically impact on revenue growth. It is unlikely Twitter will be the first distribution platform to effectively monetise news content but foundations elsewhere will allow for a more consensual \"news normal\" to develop to the benefit of all. More sticky content and more valuable audiences Much is being currently written about the rise of digitally native media brands like Buzzfeed, Elite Daily and Vice. The commercial viability of these organisations (and all are profitable) rests largely on their shareability on social distribution platforms and therein lies a secure future. All now exist on a spectrum moving away from their geneses as entertainment brands and towards a more investigative, journalistic position having brought in talent from traditional news brands. As a greater proportion of their content appeals to a more upmarket audience, their challenge is to ensure their commercial agreements with both advertiser and platforms reflect the value of the and diverse audiences they command. These are just three possible implications but what is certain is that the news industry right now, whether it knows it or not, is at a turning point. Get the commercial balance between journalistic content and distribution platform correct and the industry can secure its profitability for a generation; get it wrong, and the future becomes much harder to predict. Nick Baughan, CEO, Maxus UK To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media and Tech Network membership. All Guardian Media and Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \"Brought to you by\" \u2013 find out more here.",
  "title": "Do Facebook, Twitter and Google offer news publishers salvation?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "media/advertising",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/alphabet"
  ],
  "lead": "As Google and Twitter partner to offer an alternative to Facebook's Instant Articles, Nick Baughan asks if off-site publishing presents a sustainable future",
  "id": "media-network/2015/sep/15/facebook-twitter-google-apple-news-publishers-instant-articles",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}