{
  "content": "Twitter may have been credited with helping topple Arab dictatorships. But Britons seem to have turned the site to a different use. Without fear of, or respect for, our own courts and their injunctions, people feverishly transmit the names of footballers and other personalities who have taken out gagging orders to protect them from being linked to stories of sexual indiscretion. That, though, is not necessarily a comment on the morality of Britons, but an acknowledgement of the reality of Twitter. It is naive to assume that it, and other social media, are in essence benign, that their main political function since the Iranian protests of 2009 has been to aid revolutionaries in communication, although it is a point so often glibly made. What is accurate, then, is to see Twitter as an amoral, disruptive force. English law, over many years, has developed careful rules for restraining the media \u2013 whether in the form of injunctions and privacy law, or in the form of contempt of court \u2013 preventing news organisations reporting on the backgrounds of suspects in a trial. The result, at least when it comes to courtrooms, is that there is all sorts of information that is routinely kept out of the media. Now an unregulated technology has come along and it is unclear if the traditional balance can ever be restored. A first indication of what was to come was when Chris Jefferies was arrested on suspicion of the murder of Joanna Yeates, whose body had been found in the Bristol area on Christmas Day. Jefferies turned out to be innocent (another man, Vincent Tabak, has confessed to killing her), but in the aftermath of his arrest there was widespread speculation about him on Twitter, which lawyers warned could have been in breach of contempt of court. In the end, neither Twitter nor its users were targeted for legal action for covering the case, though the Daily Mirror and the Sun were. What that confirmed was the existence of a three-tier media: a handful of highly regulated broadcasters, a group of lightly regulated newspapers, and the wild west online that had come to be represented by Twitter. Britain's judges have long taken such a view when it comes to injunctions, with Justice Eady declining to overturn the Ryan Giggs gagging order early on Monday afternoon even though tens of thousands had tweeted Giggs's name, and hundreds of thousands would have read it. Broadcasting and the press have long fed off each other; the new media dynamic adds Twitter, other social media and influential blogs to the mix. The Daily Mail, in particular, is often quick to report what is circulating on Twitter; what the newspaper also well understands is that it is able to whip up enough public sentiment to its brand of morality (as Paul Dacre, the title's editor achieved, by helping prompt thousands of complaints in response to Russell Brand and Jonathan Ross's sexually explicit Radio 2 broadcast). This time, though, the public reaction helped beat the injunction because the newspaper could keep pointing to Twitter leaks and the absurdity of the press's inability to report what the public can openly discuss. And while the judges might complain, it is the politicians who fall into line. So it fell to David Cameron to say on Daybreak on Monday morning that the situation was \"unsustainable\". Then it fell to John Hemming, a Liberal Democrat, who felt justified in naming Ryan Giggs in the Commons. At that point it was only minutes before the media piled in and the dam was breached.",
  "title": "Twitter's wild west brings politicians into line",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "law/law",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing"
  ],
  "lead": "Dan Sabbagh: Amoral and unregulated technology is challenging English law's carefully developed rules for restraining the media",
  "id": "technology/2011/may/23/twitter-injunctions-law-privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}