{
  "content": "The decision to give child killer Mary Bell lifelong anonymity that will guarantee a future free of any press coverage has been condemned by a lobby group acting for murder victims. Mothers Against Murders and Aggression said the high court ruling gave privileges to criminals that were undeserved. \"The decision by Judge Elizabeth Butler-Sloss, although not unexpected, is another in favour of criminals,\" the group said today. \"Mary Bell gave up her right to anonymity when she helped Gitta Sereny to write a book about her life - in so doing, she was wholly responsible for bringing her daughter and herself back into public attention.\" Mary Bell, now 46, was just 11 when she was convicted of murdering four-year-old Brian Howe and three-year-old Martin Brown. She has an 18-year-old daughter and has been battling for anonymity since 1998 after newspapers tracked her down following the publication of the biography by Gitty Sereny, which described her abusive and deprived childhood. She was forced to flee into protective custody after the Sun uncovered her but won an injunction banning her identification by any newspapers. Mothers Against Murders and Aggression told the Press Assocation today: \"The families of Martin Brown and Brian Howe have never had the privilege of remaining anonymous and just when they were learning to live with the murders of their children 30 years before, Bell's book was released, with no prior warning to the families. Dame Elizabeth said in her view probably the most important reason for granting anonymity was Bell's abusive childhood and her considerable mental health problems. A forensic psychiatrist had reported that Bell was damaged by \"appalling early childhood experiences\". The report read: \"She (Bell) has been further damaged by the acting out of childhood fantasies which led to her incarceration, to intense guilt, to stigma and to public opprobrium. \"Later she experienced further abuse, including some damage at the hands of a prison official, physical and emotional damage from her first male partner, and the very stressful experience of a journalist researching and writing her story.\" This had precipitated a chronic affective disorder manifested by anxiety and depression. The report concluded that any further press intrusion, particularly involving Bell's daughter, would amount to \"further psychological abuse\". Dame Elizabeth said Bell's daughter had led a \"disturbed and dislocated life\". She had moved many times during her childhood - five times under compulsion - and had the alarming experience of being removed, at the age of four, from a school where she was unacceptable as a pupil because she was the daughter of her mother. For the foreseeable future she would live with Bell, to whom she remains very close and interdependent. \"She is, of course, entirely innocent and was born into a situation over which she has no control.\" Her daughter's situation was so \"inextricably linked\" with that of her mother that it was not possible to treat them separately.",
  "title": "Bell ruling condemned by victims' group",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "The decision to give child killer Mary Bell lifelong anonymity has been condemned by a lobby group acting for murder victims. By Ciar Byrne",
  "id": "media/2003/may/21/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}