{
  "content": "In last week's blog, about The Great Gatsby, several of you expressed anxiety about the liberties Baz Luhrmann's film might be taking with Fitzgerald's text. Making a movie out of a novel \u2013 even a short one such as Gatsby \u2013 is always going to involve a violation of the material, a loss of nuance and subtlety, the cutting of characters and scenes, and so on. Luhrmann is no faithful archivist. Indeed, he made his reputation with his own interpretation of Romeo + Juliet, starring Leonardo DiCaprio. So it goes. It's a characteristic of classic literature that it's bound to experience many strange, and even troubling, renewals. All we can do, as readers, is keep faith with the language, style and imagination of true literary endeavour. Sometimes, of course, that's hard. As I write, news is coming in of a collaboration between the Royal Shakespeare Company and Google, titled Midsummer Night's Dreaming. This digitally inspired event promises to take \"reinterpretation\" to a new level. If I've understood the publicity, people all over the world will be able to go online to join the RSC live as they and Google+ present a one-off digital theatre project riffing on Shakespeare's text. Audiences will be able to watch scenes from the play on the web on the weekend of June 21-23, with additional events taking place in Stratford-upon-Avon on the Sunday. According to the press release, \"the story will also be reported as it happens, by new characters created by a group of commissioned artists, and shared through the internet\". Shorn of the usual hyperbole, this is essentially an online interactive event, linked to Shakespeare's play. Is it A Midsummer Night's Dream? Of course not. Does it make the play redundant? Impossible. Will it introduce a new audience to a classic comedy? With luck. Who's the winner here? Guess what: Shakespeare has been around for about 400 years; if Google manages 40 it will be doing pretty well. Meanwhile, scattering a bit of Californian largesse and what it calls \"fairy dust\" on the RSC is all to the good. The thing I take away from the breathless announcement of this project is not the whizz-bang innovations dreamed up by the Google sponsors; that's a given (the software giant is bound to want to show off its wares, notably Google+). No, what's interesting \u2013 and faintly encouraging \u2013 is that for all the negative publicity Google attracts, it remains responsive to culture and to cultural opportunities. Faced with Midsummer Night's Dreaming, purists will denounce the dumbing down of the RSC's programme. Another way to look at it is to celebrate the dumbing up of the software nerds. More broadly, from a literary point of view, this is timely and welcome confirmation that it's the content that is king.",
  "title": "Midsummer Night's Dreaming: the RSC takes a smattering of Google fairy dust",
  "lead": "Robert McCrum: An internet production of Shakespeare's classic comedy is not so much the RSC dumbing down as Google flaunting its cultural credentials \u2013 and that can only be a good thing",
  "tags": [
    "stage/rsc",
    "stage/theatre",
    "stage/stage",
    "culture/shakespeare",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/google-plus",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "books/booksblog/2013/may/08/midsummer-nights-dreaming-rsc-google",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}