{
  "content": "Every woman I know has been shouted at by a stranger, has been called a whore, bitch or slut, whispered to, hissed at, threatened, pressed against, rubbed. Like the time I was a teenager on a busy tube and felt the person next to me work his finger into my short sleeve to stroke my breast, or the time the person in the seat opposite, hiding his crotch from the school party to his right, gestured expertly for me to watch him rub it, or the time we were chased by a flasher in the woods outside school. Some women I know have been physically attacked, some haven't. Every woman I know has been warned about walking back in the dark, even though they know that most acts of violence happen at home, by somebody they know; every woman I know has carried their keys spiked through their knuckles when they walk down the road at night. Every woman I know texts their friends to say they're home safe. Every woman I know in London has been warned about the temporary alleys round the back of Tottenham Court Road, where the Crossrail is being built and there are unlit blind spots on CCTV. Every woman I know on Twitter or who participates in conversations online or who appears on TV has been mocked for her appearance, for her desirability. Every female writer I know has been compared to a Nazi. Every female writer I know receives emails like the ones I get from men's rights activists, whose messages veer between political theses about the demonisation of men by feminazis, comments on our frigidity, flowery patronising essays and sneering threats. And every woman I know who has encountered this intimidation \u2013 in emails, tweets, below-the-line comments, or after seeing intimate photographs shared by an ex \u2013 has been advised to laugh it off. To ignore it. But few of us do, and few of us can, because it's as much a part of the world we live in as the knowledge that we are in danger if we go out in shoes we can't run away in, as much a part of our world as the keys in our fists. Last week the Isla Vista massacre (where a 22-year-old man with direct links to men's rights activism posted videos in misogynist forums promising to \"slaughter\" the \"sluts\" who rejected him) was the first confirmation that we are right not to laugh off the approaches of these anonymous and raging men. On Twitter I read responses from men saying: \"I don't blame guns, I blame blondes\" and \"I hope you women see this as a lesson to stop being so stuck up.\" The murderer's manifesto (published widely), his disturbed rhetoric, his language of violence and entitlement are sadly familiar. Advocates of the men's rights movement are united by their belief that feminism is the enemy. It's made up of a mix of men \u2013 pick-up artists, male victims of abuse, father's rights proponents \u2013 who come together online. One of the most successful communities in the \"manosphere\" is Reddit's Red Pill. It has almost 53,000 subscribers who believe that women are designed solely for sex and sandwich-making. (I'm paraphrasing, but barely \u2013 one email I got this week suggested that \"the women's movement is breaking the circle of life, and our humanity\"). In the same way that Nigel Farage has been required to repeatedly insist that his party is not racist, this week its members have felt obliged to assert that their community (named after the pill Keanu Reeves takes in The Matrix to unplug his mind from a simulated world) does not support violence. Elsewhere other men's rights groups (and there are hundreds of them) are saying the same: \"He wasn't one of us.\" \"His is a perfect case of someone who needed the red pill,\" wrote Polysyllabist. \"Because it's somewhere he could come to vent, and be angry, and not have his pain be dismissed, ridiculed or ignored.\" We know that these misogynists, who sneer online or grope on trains or kill, do not exist in vacuums. They are formed by cultures that glorify violence against women, that tell men they're owed sex, that contribute to that background hum every woman learns to block out \u2013 every woman learns, early, to be at least a little bit terrified. We're right not to ignore the emails, threats and comments. Can we stop, now, pretending to laugh? Email Eva at e.wiseman@observer.co.uk. Follow Eva on Twitter @EvaWiseman",
  "title": "The everyday fear of violence every woman has to cope with| Eva Wiseman",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/women",
    "world/feminism",
    "society/society",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Men's rights internet forums are seeking to distance themselves from last week's mass murder by a misogynist in California \u2013 but it didn't happen in a vacuum, says Eva Wiseman",
  "id": "lifeandstyle/2014/jun/01/mens-rights-internet-forums-distance-from-misogynist-mass-murder",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}