{
  "content": "Britons are juggling several types of media at the same time to sate their appetite and leave enough time for everything else in their lives, the Ofcom study reveals. The average media consumer's digital day is seven hours and five minutes. From breakfast radio to peaktime evening TV, via surfing and texting at home or at our desks, media takes up 45% of our time. The actual amount being consumed is even higher, Ofcom believes, with the boom in mobile computing helping Britons to multitask. \"The ability of people to surf the web on their laptop while also watching TV has given people a licence to roam while staying connected,\" said Peter Phillips, Ofcom's strategy and market developments partner. A fifth of our media time is this kind of \"simultaneous\" consumption. Those aged between 16 and 24 are particularly adept at this juggling act, and are mopping up more media than any other age group. They cram nine and a half hours worth of media into six and a half hours of actual time \u2013 data that suggests the cliche of the youngster loafing in the lounge is an unfair one. \"Sixteen-to-24-year-olds go out more, and spend less time watching TV,\" Phillips commented. He also acknowledged that this multitasking can mean we devote less attention to any one media source, although this was more pronounced when using new technology. It appears we are simply better at combining reading, landline calls or TV watching with another activity without our attention drifting. Discovering that teenagers are happier than their parents to combine web surfing, phone calls, tweeting and TV is not exactly a revelation, and Ofcom's research does show that some other truisms also still apply. The over 55s are still wedded to their TVs and radios (67% of all the media they consume), while computers, mobile phones and handheld gadgets make up 58% of 16- to 24-year olds' media diet. But there are also plenty of surprises in this latest snapshot of the UK marketplace. The gap between the way different generations use old and new media is closing fast. For the first time, more than 50% of over-55s have broadband at home, and a third are sending and reading emails each day. There have also been some interesting changes in the importance people give to different media activities. Half of all adults said they would miss TV the most, up from 44% in 2005, followed by 15% who cited the internet (up from 8%) and 11% who would pine for their mobile phone (up from 10%). Hi-fi equipment and CD players have fallen most sharply in our affections with a mere 2% of people saying they would miss them the most, down from 13% four years ago. For the 16 to 24 age group, though, the mobile phone would be missed nearly as much as the telly.But the death of television as the dominant media platform appears to be far away as ever. TV continues to take centre stage in the evenings, partly due to the success of talent shows. However the box in the corner of the room is increasingly likely to be a high-definition flatscreen. More than five million households now have a HD set, up from 1.9 million in March 2009. \"Television still has a central role in our lives. We are watching more TV than at any time in the last five years,\" said James Thickett, Ofcom's research director. While Simon Cowell can take some credit for maintaining the nation's TV fix (measured at three hours and 45 minutes per day), another factor is the growing demand for time-shifted viewing, thanks to digital video recorders as well as catch-up TV services such as the BBC iPlayer or ITV Player. \"The ability to watch what we want when we want it is bringing people back into the living room, said Phillips. Commercial broadcasters should not rejoice too much, though, as DVR owners have the option to skip through the adverts. While TV appears to have maintained its ability to hold our attention, 17% of viewing is still taking place alongside another media format \u2013 typically a computer or mobile phone. Smartphone sales have risen rapidly in the UK in recent years, up 81% in the 12 months to May. The research shows this led to much more media consumption \"on the go\", although in many cases people appear to be heading straight for Facebook and staying there. The social networking site makes up 45% of the total time spent online on mobile phones during December 2009, Ofcom said. This may have been skewed by a surge of family photos or amusing Christmas party pictures, although the regulator also cited more recent data that illustrates Facebook's remarkable \"stickiness\". \"The average user spent around six hours and 30 minutes on Facebook in May 2010, compared with nearly one hour 30 minutes for users of Google, and nearly two hours for users of MSN [Microsoft] services,\" said the regulator. Twitter holds second place on the social networking ladder ahead of MySpace and LinkedIn, with traffic to its website up 56% in the past year. Increased adoption of high-powered mobile phones also means that more young people are abandoning their fixed broadband line. Ofcom's research also shows the impact of the recession. Revenues in the telecoms industry were badly hit in 2009, falling for the first time since the regulator started tracking this data in the early 1990s. Ofcom said this was also due to increased price pressure as operators try to lure customers to take a bundle of services, and a tailing-off in the boom in mobile phone and broadband connections. With TV revenues contracting, it was little surprise that the amount consumers spend on communications fell again to \u00a391.24 per month. Five years ago we spent an average of \u00a3100.71 per month. \"Consumers are using communications services more - including phone calls, texting and the internet. Yet they are paying less despite getting more, partly through buying in bundles,\" said Ofcom.",
  "title": "Multi-tasking media consumption on rise among Britons, says Ofcom study",
  "lead": "16 to 24-year-olds particularly adept at juggling act, cramming nine and a half hours of media into six and a half hours of actual time",
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "society/social-trends",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/ofcom",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "technology/gadgets",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2010/aug/19/multi-tasking-media-ofcom-study",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}