{
  "content": "Football fans are well catered-for when it comes to ways to follow the sport on our smartphones. Thinking about the English Premier League alone, we can watch live matches in Sky and BT's apps, watch highlights on the BBC's iPlayer or Sun+ Goals, dive into Opta data from FourFourTwo's Stats Zone app, and get news, in-match commentary and goal alerts from a host of news apps (The Guardian's included). One of the most popular football apps, though, doesn't come from an established media brand. German startup Motain launched The Football App in 2008, and it has since rolled out across iOS, Android, Windows Phone, BlackBerry and Samsung's connected TVs. The app has been downloaded more than 10m times, but founder Lucas von Cranach says that's not the best measure of its performance. \"Everybody talks about downloads, but downloads isn't a currency if people aren't using your application,\" he says. \"We have close to 5m monthly active users, and they're highly engaged, with up to 1.5m daily active users. People spend around 1.5 to 2 hours a month on average in the app, and generate 200-250 page impressions each per month.\" Until now, The Football App has focused on news, scores and commentaries, stats and other content drawn from various media partners \u2013 Opta, Associated Press and local press agencies included \u2013 covering more than 100 leagues around the world. That's changing today, with a new feature called Fan Zone that aims to get fans chatting much more around all this content. It's launching initially for the top leagues in England, Germany, Spain, Italy and France, curating social buzz around individual teams and matches. \"Say I'm a fan following the upcoming Swansea against Arsenal match. If I go into that game's Fan Zone, I'll see content from external sources: people recognised as big Arsenal or Swansea fans, interesting fan blogs and other experts,\" says chief technical officer Jonathan Lavigne. \"But there will also be the possibility to chat with other users about this curated external content, discussing and commenting on it, and then that can flow back to Twitter from the app. We are looking at it from a mobile-first perspective: it's not about people writing 200 to 500-line blog posts. It's much more about small interactions.\" Each user will also get their own profile within The Football App. There are other startups trying this kind of thing: Fanatix from the UK and Vubooo from Israel. But the nearest parallel to what The Football App is trying to do may be Zeebox, which has a wider brief \u2013 all television rather than just football \u2013 but a similar mix of curated tweets and social interaction. von Cranach is setting his sights higher, though. \"Football is huge. There are about 350m people consuming football globally through mobile devices, and that's the market we're targeting,\" he says. \"We believe we can become the Facebook for football, and we are on the way to getting there.\" The company hopes people will be using its app more throughout the week as a result of the new features. For example, each match's Fan Zone will open three days before the game, and continue for 3-4 days after it, taking in the build-up and post-match debates, rather than just chatter during the match. von Cranach says that Motain has been \"almost cashflow-positive\" in the last few years, but the company raised \u20ac10m (\u00a38.3m) in April 2013 in a funding round led by Earlybird Venture Capital to fuel its ambitions, including expanding its team to support the new social features. The Football App has made its money so far from advertising and marketing partnerships, including creating a Euro 2012 app for Carlsberg which von Cranach says was \"the most successful branded app ever\". He sticks to the familiar social startup refrain of striving for reach before revenues \u2013 \"We do substantial revenues, but if you don't have the reach and a successful product, you'll never get to a great company that does great revenues\" \u2013 but hints at plans for mobile advertising that go beyond banners. \"If you think about how Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, Foursquare\u2026 how these companies approach the market in terms of advertising, it's in-stream advertising and not banners, backfill and that kind of stuff,\" says von Cranach. \"Advertising going above content is wrong, so that is not the direction we are heading in. We are lucky that in this vertical, football, there are a lot of premium brands who want to engage with football fans.\" What about competition, though? Less from Fanatix, Vubooo and Zeebox (although that too) but more about broadcasters, newspapers and big sports portals adding more social features to their own mobile apps? They'll surely be looking for big slices of these advertising revenues too. von Cranach is bullish. \"When a company comes from print or broadcast, then goes to the web and mobile, they lose the traction that they really focused on,\" he says. \"If you take the big companies, the rights owners, their only focus is to have a return on their investment of hundreds of millions of Euros into those rights. The experience, the user interface, the engagement\u2026 that's not their first priority.\" In other words, Motain thinks the likes of Sky are focused mainly on getting people to watch the matches they've paid so much for the rights to broadcast, and that this will govern their strategy for second-screen and social features to keep fans engaged all week. I'm not so sure about that: it seems logical for any media company involved with football to have ambitions to become the digital water-cooler for fans. It wouldn't surprise me if Motain's ultimate ambition is for one of them to do that by buying The Football App. \"The competitors are learning and building better products. Our advantage is that we are 45 people sitting in Berlin only doing one thing, and we know that mobile is not the same as web,\" says von Cranach. \"We have that advantage, but we don't know how long it's going to last. In 2-3 years, the rightsholders will better understand this segment. Until then, we are in the best position to rule the market.\"",
  "title": "With 4.5m active fans, The Football App wants to be 'the Facebook of football'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/apps",
    "technology/smartphones",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "media/digital-media",
    "football/football",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "German startup passes 10m downloads, adds more social features and welcomes competition from broadcasters and big portals. By Stuart Dredge",
  "id": "technology/appsblog/2013/oct/02/the-football-app-motain-social",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}