{
  "content": "The apparent spat between the Number 10 and Facebook over the Raoul Moat tribute page has poured a little cool water on the Cameron/Zuckerberg love-in. During Prime Minister's questions yesterday, David Cameron agreed that Facebook should take down the 'RIP Raoul Moat You Legend' page and said he \"cannot understand any wave, however small, of public sympathy for this man\". Facebook has refused, saying the page doesn't actually violate its terms of use. Photo by smemon87 on Flickr. Some rights reserved But Number 10 think it's rather good not to be seen to be too close to Facebook, we have been told, and that they need to be seen to be critical of the site from time to time as well as playing the down-with-the-youth/afternoon-tea-with-Zuck card when it suits. So this 'anger' over Facebook's refusal to remove the page is just another convenient ebb in the ebb and flow of public perception of Mr Cameron, and his meticulously orchestrated PR effort. Splendid. \u2022 Update: The page 'RIP Raoul Moat You Legend' has been taken down. Facebook said it had not removed it, but indicated that a page creator can delete that page at any time. Perhaps the criticism got to them, or they tired of the responsibility of looking after it. German minister proposes data privacy rules Meanwhile the Facebook privacy row rumbles on, not because of any specific change by Facebook but because Ilse Aigner, Germany's consumer minister, has suggested that the internet community should club together and compose an 'internet honour code'. We all know how much 'the internet community' loves drawing up lists of rules. Because the success of the internet all comes down to rules, doesn't it? It doesn't? Oh. You might remember the carnage the last time someone proposed rules about blogging after this Kathy Sierra episode. It doesn't work, in large part because most of us have a strong feeling about what Supernanny would call 'ceptable behaviour' online and slightly resent someone else's version being imposed on us - especially when it is only a tiny minority that act irresponsibly. That wouldn't work in the real world, but hey. Aigner wants ten \"short, sharp and clear\" golden rules, she told Die Welt. \"It would be good if users themselves made suggestions. We could base them on social networks that already have a 'netiquette'.\" Who writes down manners? Can courtesy be legislated?",
  "title": "Facebook: The Raoul Moat episode, and more on the privacy row",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "uk/raoul-moat",
    "politics/davidcameron",
    "world/gun-crime"
  ],
  "lead": "The apparent spat between the Number 10 and Facebook over the Raoul Moat tribute page has poured a little cool water on the Cameron/Zuckerberg love-in. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "technology/pda/2010/jul/15/facebook-david-cameron-raoul-moat",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}