{
  "content": "It is fashionable to say that debates over press freedom must not be the exclusive preserve of celebrities. Quite right, too. But with a media obsessed with celebrity - its creation, its celebration, its commercial potential and its destruction - it is wishful thinking to imagine that celebrities will not want their say. Last week it was the turn of Sara Cox, the Radio 1 DJ. She was - unforgivably - photographed naked while on honeymoon and the results plastered all over the front page of the People. It was the clearest possible breach of the press complaints commission code of conduct. The newspaper's editor could scarcely have been ignorant of this fact: he, uniquely, sat on the PCC as well as its code committee. Eighteen months on and the editor is still a member of the PCC. He has received not so much as a smack on the wrist with a feather duster. Rather, the PCC's indignation is directed towards Ms Cox and her lawyers. It was, they imply, unsporting of her to go to law having secured a 63-word apology from the paper. Why no ticking off for the editor? Because it was an attempt at mediation, not adjudication. Why no attempt to get at the facts (the editor and photographer told diametrically opposite stories)? Because the PCC is not equipped to do such a thing. Once the whole tawdry case trundled off to the lawyers - so the PCC argues - there was not much it could do. The PCC has been made to look rather feeble by the Cox case, and others like it. Its claim that it cannot be expected to make findings of fact increases the appearance of impotence. Imagine the scorn heaped on any other regulator who made such a claim. Imagine the opprobrium if a serial offender in any other walk of life remained in position not only drafting hallowed codes of ethics, but also enforcing them. The new chairman of the PCC, Sir Christopher Meyer, has much work to do.",
  "title": "Leader: Cox case is bad news for the PCC",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/pcc",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": " Cox case is bad news for the PCC.",
  "id": "media/2003/jun/09/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}