{
  "content": "How many times have you sent private messages via your personal email account during working hours and on your employer's computer? In a landmark ruling by the European court of human rights (ECHR) an employer's actions in reading a member of staff's personal communications on Yahoo Messenger were deemed to be reasonable. The court ruling involving a company in Romania said it was within its rights to read the personal messages of one of its engineers, Bogdan Barbulescu, that he sent on Yahoo Messenger while he was supposed to be working. The engineer was fired after his employer discovered he was using Yahoo Messenger for communicating with his fiancee and brother, even though he had been asked to set up the account for the purpose of responding to clients' enquiries. The employer said this was in breach of company policy. The ECHR dismissed the engineer's argument that the company had violated his right to private communications. The court said it was not \"unreasonable that an employer would want to verify that employees were completing their professional tasks during working hours\", adding that the company had accessed the messages in the belief that they related to professional activities and therefore such access had been legitimate in the circumstances. The ECHR's judgments are taken into account by UK courts and tribunals. Even prior to this ruling, many employers already had the ability to monitor the internet and email activities of staff using workplace systems via company policies or express terms in contracts of employment. To justify such monitoring, your employer would be expected to set out: The circumstances in which you may or may not use work email and internet for private communications; The extent and type of private use that is allowed; Why your emails are being monitored, the extent of the monitoring, and the means used; and How the policy is enforced and the penalties if you breach it. If you breach such a policy by using work computers for private reasons, which includes the use of Facebook and Twitter, this may amount to a disciplinary matter, and even gross misconduct, although any such action by an employer would need to be proportionate and consistently applied. The ECHR ruling may mean employers now consider there is legitimacy in stepping up the monitoring activities of private emails and messages via social media platforms. If they do so unreasonably, they may find themselves coming unstuck if challenged. Nevertheless, the ruling serves as a reminder that you should think twice before having personal online communications at work. Philip Landau is an employment law solicitor at Landau Law Solicitors. You can follow him on Twitter @philiplandau",
  "title": "Check your company's policy on sending personal messages at work",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "money/work-and-careers",
    "money/money",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "A European court ruling means your employer could monitor your personal messages during working hours, and take action if it was against company policy",
  "id": "money/work-blog/2016/jan/14/company-policy-personal-messages-european-court-ruling",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}