{
  "content": "Last week, a 52-year-old man in Middlesbrough was lucky enough to discover that he had won \u00a37,039,469, a third share of the Lotto Extra Jackpot. Apparently he looked pretty smug when he told his mates \"I am made for life now\". Asked if he had won some money on the horses he said no but indicated he had won some money on the lottery. \u00a3100 was put behind the bar and the drinks were on him but it seems he wanted to keep his good fortune quiet. Camelot, the National Lottery operator, told the Sun that it was not prepared to confirm or deny the names of the winners and pointed out that they are unable to release any details about winners who opt for no publicity. So how did this cause a media storm? The \"lucky\" winner was Iorworth Hoare and he was no ordinary punter. He was in prison for attempted rape, having already been convicted of rape and indecent assaults. He had begun a series of sex attacks when he was still in his 20s and had been sentenced to 18 years' worth of imprisonment between 1973 and 1987. He was finally jailed for life for the attempted rape of a 60-year-old woman in a park in Leeds in 1989. Hoare then disappeared from public view and was on temporary release from a Middlesbrough bail hostel when his numbers came up on August 7. Under Home Office guidelines prisoners on temporary release are allowed to play the lottery. While sentencing him to life, the trial judge said there was no sign of psychiatric illness behind his behaviour and that he was a menace to women. Maybe age has mellowed him, because the authorities had clearly satisfied themselves that he was no longer a danger and he had been released to the hostel from Leyhill open prison in Gloucestershire. The Sun was outraged that a \"serial beast serving life\" should win \u00a37m and the other tabloids and news broadcasters picked up on the story too. David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, wants the law changed and Hoare's victims to benefit. A good old-fashioned scoop? Or a gross invasion of the privacy of a man who had paid (or nearly paid) his debt to society? Hoare wanted to keep his win from the public; he instructed solicitors in an unsuccessful bid to silence the Sun. Until 2000, the law would not have been able to intervene in the Sun's exclusive. A criminal conviction is a fact that even a libel court cannot dispute - well, not since the Civil Evidence Act 1968. The Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974, which allows offenders to live down a criminal past, applies only to convictions where there was less than a two-year sentence, and lesser offences become spent after between five and 10 years. But this is to allow ex-criminals to apply for jobs (eventually) as people of good character. However, the press can still publish details of spent convictions, and plead justification, unless the claimant can show that the newspaper was motivated by malice (a desire to injure the ex-con rather than inform the public) which is a non-starter of a claim. But the 2000 Human Rights legislation has altered everything. The media landscape has changed. The most obvious manifestation has perhaps been the disappearance of stories about, or pictures of, the children of celebrities, but the privacy clauses in the Press Complaints Commission Code, BBC Producers' Guidelines and Ofcom codes make clear that everyone is entitled to respect for his or her private and family life, home, health and correspondence, and intrusions have to be justified as being in the public interest. This tends to be defined as detecting or exposing crime or serious impropriety, protecting public health and safety and preventing the public from being misled. Hoare was last a danger to the public in 1989, has not misled the public and was of little interest to anyone (apart from his victims). So next time, a craftier criminal may be able to obtain a confidentiality-based injunction to keep his private good fortune private. There is an argument available to the media under the PCC Code that information can be published if it would have come into the public domain anyway, because within hours of his win Hoare was picked up by the police - officials decided his windfall had turned him into a \"security risk\". This resulted in him being put in a closed prison for his own safety with all future weekend leave cancelled. According to the Sun's prison sources, the worry was that he might buy a plane ticket to Rio but is it likely that he would have the necessary passport? More realistic is the danger to his own safety from jealous fellow criminals (which unfortunately can be a real concern). \"Cocky Lotto Lout Michael Carroll\" (to quote the Sun) won \u00a39.7m in November 2002 but was jailed earlier this year for five months for various drugs offences after he breached a drugs testing and treatment order. Carroll was attacked shortly after he had arrived in Norwich jail to a chorus of jeers. He had not made friends among the warders by telling them, as he removed his gold jewellery, \"careful with that lot, boys, it's a year's salary to you\". A fellow inmate assaulted him, leaving him with a black eye and a fat lip, and Carroll asked to be held in a cell away from the main wing. All of which leads to the ultimate irony. Multimillionaire \"sex monster\" Hoare was entitled to buy his ticket (apparently it is part of his rehabilitation, as the lottery simply did not exist when he was last a free man), is entitled to his winnings, is still entitled to be let out sooner rather than later from prison and, thanks to the media, is now likely to be entitled to the Rolls Royce of injunctions granted to those other high-profile villains, Mary Bell, Thompson and Venables, and more recently Maxine Carr. The courts have issued blanket orders granting anonymity to these individuals because there was believed to be a danger to their life and wellbeing. Hoare has already lost his freedom, having been moved from a Category D to a Category C prison, and had his image splashed on the front pages and all over the internet. As a now fabulously wealthy serious sex offender it will not be hard for him to persuade a court he needs its help to live out what is left of his life in peace (a right protected by Article 8), so he should have his new name and new address kept secret. Article 8 is there, according to the European Court of Human Rights, to protect the private lives of all, so it should protect an ex-convict who has served his time. The principle of open justice (including naming criminals) is a cornerstone of the criminal justice system in Britain. It seems bizarre, then, that celebrity criminals should, simply because of their high profile, find themselves and their private lives protected from the media to an extent that honest law-abiding celebrities can only dream of. Parliament declined to intervene in the privacy debate in the hope that judges, regulators and common sense could sort things out. That hope seems to have been misplaced. The law of confidentiality and the principles of privacy are going off in unexpected directions and lucky celebrity convicts, no matter how evil, are entitled to the benefits of secrecy to protect themselves from vengeance. On a happier note, at least Hoare can afford to pay his legal costs. \u00b7 Duncan Lamont is a media partner at city solicitors Charles Russell",
  "title": "He's in the money ...",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "... and now he's in the papers. But does the millionaire convict have any privacy rights?  Duncan Lamont  reports.",
  "id": "media/2004/aug/16/privacy.mondaymediasection",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}