{
  "content": "Have you ever daydreamed about one day working in an illustration studio with other fun creative people? Where someone would put on the kettle and you'd all have a laugh? For most illustrators the reality is very different. We spend a lot of time alone. We find solutions: TOAST can become the answer to all our work-related problems. Can't draw those hands properly? MAKE TOAST. Scanner or printer not working? MAKE TOAST. (Possibly substitute BISCUITS or BREAKFAST CEREAL for toast.) No bread, biscuits or cereal left in the house? Go onto the internet. Emerge hours later, feeling like a bloated time-waster. I once went to a therapist to talk about my problems with toast and internet addiction and he reckoned that both of those things were my ways of dealing with a craving for human contact. Snacks symbolised cosy get-togethers with cake and friends, and the internet \u2013 well, there are people on the internet. Being an illustrator can be a very lonely job, but so can being alone at home with children or working night shifts, or being in a geographic location where you aren't near any people who share your interests or studying so hard for your exams that you don't get out much. I know of a woman in Uruguay , for example, who worked her way through much of the Guardian children's books site's How to draw\u2026 series because she wanted to improve her drawing skills but couldn't find any illustration community or classes where she lives. In 2006 I started a blog on LiveJournal which opened my eyes to the way the internet can be a very positive, encouraging experience, and boost the creativity of a whole community. I'm always reading about internet trolls and nasty things people say to each other online, but I never found that to be the case with LiveJournal; it was all people geeking out about drawing and making comics and getting excited about each other's creations. When I started on Twitter @jabberworks, I brought those expectations to it and, for the most part, found other people were meeting them. Hashtags bring together people who are all working on the same project, and with camera phones, it's easier than ever to share pictures we've made and chat about them. In 2009, three of us illustrators were musing on Twitter about how much we wished we were in a studio, and we managed to link up and find a place in an old police station where we could work together. It was great; we'd get out of the house to a communal work space, make silly drawings together, help each other when computer equipment failed, joke around, and generally be there for each other. Studio life has its challenges, too. Awhile back one of our studio mates got a rescue puppy who grew to be enormous and thrashes about a lot more than we were expecting. He stays home a lot more these days, to look after the dog. But I don't ever want to go back to working from home. Not everyone can have a studio; location, budget, kids, needy pets\u2026 so many things can get in the way. But I've found, to a certain extent, Twitter can recreate the studio experience in that we can get together over a hashtag the same way we'd meet to put on the kettle. Recently a bunch of us have been taking part in the #ShapeChallenge on Twitter. The Shape Game isn't anything new; older readers might remember former Children's Laureate Anthony Browne taking it around the country. But every drawing someone creates IS something new and it's loads of fun when lots of people are trying it, many of them not even very accustomed to drawing. Younger people who aren't on Twitter can, with the help of their parents or librarians, jump in too, which is wonderful. Kids get so much more focused on drawing when they see adults doing it, too, and I often learn a lot from seeing the zany ways kids sometimes put together a picture. People don't have to be in the UK to join, and it would be great to get people involved who are stuck in hospital, elderly people, anyone who can manage to put a picture on the internet. Check out my virtual studio blog to find out how you can join the fun. (Clue: there aren't a lot of rules and it's the internet, you can break them.) Right now a bunch of us are doing #ShapeChallenge, but drawing challenges don't usually go on forever and I'm excited to see what else might happen. How to start? Visit the Virtual Studio on Twitter @StudioTeaBreak and browse what's going on. You don't have to feel self-conscious if you don't feel you're very good at drawing; some people labour over their pictures but other people dash them off in a few minutes before the school run, or whatever they have time for. I want to give it just enough time to enliven and energise me in my paid illustration work, but not enough time so it distracts me from what I need to be doing. Some people scan or draw digitally and other people use pencil and paper and post a quick snapshot. It's fun to draw together. So put on the kettle and get out your drawing supplies, let's get started! Info: Virtual studio webpage, virtual studio on @StudioTeaBreak. Sarah McIntyre has collaborated with friends to create books such as Pugs of the Frozen North, Cakes in Space and Oliver and the Seawigs with Philip Reeve, and Jampires with David O'Connell. She also creates solo picture books and comics (There's a Shark in the Bath, Dinosaur Police, Vern and Lettuce) but she still likes to phone a friend when she gets stuck. Follow her on Twitter: @jabberworks.",
  "title": "It's time for a virtual tea break and to draw together",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "books/booksforchildrenandteenagers",
    "books/books",
    "artanddesign/illustration",
    "artanddesign/artanddesign",
    "books/childrens-books-7-and-under",
    "books/picture-books",
    "culture/culture",
    "artanddesign/design",
    "education/creativity-in-the-classroom",
    "education/education",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/blogging"
  ],
  "lead": "Most illustrators spend a lot of time alone\u2026 and many eat a lot of toast to comfort themselves. That's why Sarah McIntyre has made a Twitter-based virtual studio tea break that everyone can join in with ",
  "id": "childrens-books-site/2016/jan/19/virtual-studio-tea-break-sarah-mcintryre-shapechallenge",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}