{
  "content": "The dodo was doing fine until the Dutch arrived in Mauritius. Kodak was an iconic brand until floored by disruptive technology. In evolutionary terms, there's no such thing as a 'best strategy', it is defined by context. And there's no law that says organisations at the top of their game stay there \u2013 more likely the opposite. One area where these dynamics are apparent is in campaigning, where a set of social, technological and political trends are calling into question the basic ways that NGOs typically operate. Non profit organisations have always had to wrestle with the tension of trying to make campaigns 'manageable'. Particularly as social change can be hugely complex, often unpredictable, and highly difficult to control or steer. This isn't new. Many of the key moments in the civil rights movement for example \u2013 from the Freedom Rides to the sit ins - were spontaneous reactions, decentralised initiatives, 'unplanned' moments. Major campaigns over the years have pivoted on, or otherwise benefitted from, uncertainty and chance: from the 'Frankenfood' frenzy around genetically modified food (GM) to the unexpected turns the landmines campaign took on the way to the treaty ban. But in more recent years developments in social media have increased the significance and resonance of these dynamics, creating conditions of greater volatility and unpredictability. For example, it has speeded up information flows and amplified the spread of ideas, offering the possibility to make new and unusual connections. Social media offers opportunity for a radically different response, such as flatter, quicker and more decentralised way of working, favouring more loosely structured entities. 'Barriers to entry' have been radically reduced, as was shown by the #Spartacus social-media-led mobilisation around and crowdsourced analysis of the proposed changes to Disability Living Allowance. Politically, representative democracy is in malaise, for all kinds of reasons. The thousands of hours spent influencing the Copenhagen Climate Change COP15 negotiations when the final 'accord' effectively sidestepped the entire process is one example of how taking representative democracy at face value is a stance that can come back to bite you. But the NGOs' campaign 'offer' is often still predicated on change through representative advocacy. In this model we as 'supporters' can often be two steps from the action, our efforts mediated first through the NGO and then the decision-making target. New movements such as Occupy operate in a different \u2013 and more compelling \u2013 way: people looking for solutions in their own hands. Obviously it's horses for courses, and there are pros and cons of different approaches, but the rebalancing from 'representative' to 'participative' democracy clearly points to new ways of thinking about change. Faced with these trends, NGOs' internal dynamics typically pull in the opposite direction. One reason for this is that campaigning in more recent years has typically moved from the margins of organisations to being more central. There's nothing wrong with that, but it can introduce some problems \u2013 including an increased desire to retain organisational control of messages, and a greater tendency towards brand-heavy approaches. In practice, integration of campaigning and marketing is often weakly strategised and poorly implemented. As a result, NGOs could pursue simplistic or meaningless goals for profile purposes, or impose artificial internal timescales onto campaigns. There is a greater tendency too for NGOs to require (in often ill-thought-through ways) campaigns to demonstrate 'value for money'. In some cases, NGOs are additionally hampered by over-reliance on statutory funding, or are too wedded to insider approaches that can veer towards co-option. And so the worry is not only that NGOs are finding themselves in the wrong campaigning space, but also that their inability to adapt \u2013 which is particularly difficult, given that radical change may well be required. In more recent years, new campaigning forms and movements have emerged, from Change.org to UK Uncut to MoveYourMoney. The new groups are themselves hugely diverse, but are responses to the new reality. In combination, they are introducing fundamental changes to the overall landscape of campaigning, bringing challenges but also opportunities in their wake. Many NGOs are alert to trends, some working effectively with the new movements and evolving new ways of working, and are already operating to more adaptive models. Campaigners themselves are certainly aware of the shifts in context and implications for ways of working. But these are organisation-wide questions and there remains a paramount need for the NGO sector both to adapt in ways that allow for greater internal campaigning effectiveness, and to link up more effectively with, and support and be supported by, the new campaigning movements. This is likely to require tough choices, addressing some of the trade-offs involved in a meaningful response, rather than simply imagining that business as usual (only with more of everything) is a viable route forward. Jim Coe is interested in campaigning, policy &amp; social change. Join the discussion using hashtag #socialchangeV2 @jim_coe. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the voluntary sector network, click here.",
  "title": "Social, technological and political trends are transforming fundraising",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "voluntary-sector-network/fundraising",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network-blog",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network",
    "society/charities",
    "media/social-media",
    "society/voluntarysector"
  ],
  "lead": "Organisations have to adapt to changing dynamics in the voluntary sector to be successful, says Jim Coe",
  "id": "voluntary-sector-network/2012/dec/21/social-political-trends-fundraising",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}