{
  "content": "Technology industry leaders were due to question Barack Obama about privacy issues and his progress towards ending the National Security Agency's collection of bulk telephone data on Friday, in their second White House meeting over Silicon Valley's surveillance concerns. Executives from Facebook, Google and Yahoo were invited by the administration to the private Oval Office discussion amid continued anger over revelations stemming from leaks last June by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden. Reform efforts in Washington have stalled somewhat since Obama called for the US government to stop collecting domestic phone data in January but suggested an unspecified third party might be able manage the database instead \u2013 leaving Congress and the intelligence community locked in a battle over how to proceed. This has doubly complicated matters for the US technology industry, which fears public surveillance concerns are damaging its international business interests but which has little appetite for replacing the NSA's role with a private sector database provider. Friday's meeting comes just days after Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg called Obama to express his displeasure with the latest round of NSA revelations. \"Unfortunately, it seems like it will take a very long time for true, full reform,\" Zuckerberg wrote in a Facebook post on 13 March. Zuckerberg, who was expected to attend the Oval Office event with Google chairman Eric Schmidt, said he had been \"confused and frustrated\" by reports of the behaviour of the US government. \"When our engineers work tirelessly to improve security, we imagine we're protecting you against criminals, not our own government,\" he wrote. \"The US government should be the champion for the internet, not a threat. They need to be much more transparent about what they're doing, or otherwise people will believe the worst.\" This week, Rajesh De, the NSA's general counsel, said all communications content and associated metadata harvested by the NSA under a 2008 surveillance law occurred with the knowledge of the companies \u2013 both for the internet collection program known as Prism and for the so-called \"upstream\" collection of communications moving across the internet. Executives from Netflix and Palantir, the big data mining company, are also expected to attend the White House meeting, where a major topic of conversation is expected to be the imminent overhaul of how the US collects the phone records of millions of US mobile users. Obama's speech in January worried many in the tech and telecoms community, who are concerned that the burden of collecting and keeping that data will merely be passed on to them. Following Obama's announcement, Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Yahoo, AOL and others said the proposal represented \"positive progress on key issues including transparency from the government and in what companies will be allowed to disclose, extending privacy protections to non-US citizens, and Fisa court reform.\" But they said crucial details remain to be addressed and additional steps were needed. Others were more critical. Alex Fowler, head of privacy and public policy at Mozilla, maker of the Firefox browser, said Obama's proposals did not represent meaningful change. \"Overall, the strategy seems to be to leave current intelligence processes largely intact and improve oversight to a degree. We'd hoped for, and the internet deserves, more. Without a meaningful change of course, the internet will continue on its path toward a world of balkanization and distrust \u2013 a grave departure from its origins of openness and opportunity,\" he wrote in a blog post. Silicon Valley executives have made clear that they want greater transparency over the government's collection of their users data and more oversight. But talks seem to have foundered in recent months with tech executives becoming increasingly concerned that little will change.",
  "title": "Tech giants to press Obama on NSA reform in private White House meeting",
  "lead": "Executives from Facebook, Google and Yahoo invited to Oval Office discussion as anger continues over lack of reform",
  "tags": [
    "technology/yahoo",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/facebook",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/surveillance",
    "world/world",
    "law/us-constitution-and-civil-liberties",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/technology",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "world/2014/mar/21/tech-giants-obama-nsa-reform-meeting",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}