{
  "content": "In a time poor, media-saturated society used to instant gratification, many customers like the idea of brands tailoring content to their individual needs. But, as marketers know, there is a trade-off for personalised brand experiences: people trade data for a tailored brand experience. That's why whenever their smartphone software or favourite social media app updates to a new version, they are likely to automatically click \"yes\" to its permissions \u2013 allowing the brand to track their location, data, emails, and even publish things on their behalf \u2013 without really reading the terms and conditions. Even clear terms and conditions do not insulate brands from consumer backlash if it is felt they have over-stepped this data/desire trade off. US retailer Target worked out how to predict when a customer was pregnant based on their purchases, and sent them promotional material based on this data, which provoked a strong response. Andrew Pole, senior group marketing manager at Target said: \"Even if you're following the law, you can do things where people get queasy.\" Sharon Flaherty, founder of BrandContent, a digital content agency, has been exploring the potential of using tweets in billboard marketing campaigns in small towns to make a brand's Twitter influencers into local celebrities \u2013 part talking point, part \"thank you\" for positive tweets and part social media campaign (the billboards would likely generate social sharing). \"The impact, and the personalisation, would have been quite compelling,\" Flaherty said, but admitted that some people would find it invasive. \"There would be people who wouldn't be happy with seeing their face up there, but they have already put that information in the public domain.\" The concept has yet to become a reality, but the fact that such ideas are being discussed is paving the way for a whole new debate about social media privacy. Facebook under pressure Recently, Facebook found itself in hot water after it was revealed that it had conducted a \"mood experiment\" on almost 700,000 of its users; the social network had tailored newsfeeds to positive and negative content and monitored how it affected those users' own updates. In the backlash that ensued, users complained and protested at being used as \"digital guinea pigs\" for research, and MP Jim Sheridan called for a parliamentary investigation into how social networks use consumer data. Facebook chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg apologised, saying that the research had been \"poorly communicated\" to its users, adding that the social network never meant to upset\" users. She did not say Facebook will not undertake such studies again. Eileen Brown, lead consultant at Amastra, a social media strategy agency, says: \"When we signed up, we gave Facebook information. In submitting this, you have specifically given Facebook permission to use any content that you post, and it can do whatever it wants with the information. There's always a risk.\" While a Guardian poll found that 84% of Facebook users had \"lost trust\" in the site as a result of the 'mood experiment' and 66% considered closing their account, 250 million people still use it today; for most of us, it is a condition that we are willing to agree to. It appears that what was most objectionable to users was to not inform them they were taking part in a study. If Facebook had done this, perhaps the backlash would not have been so ferocious. Crossing the line Arguably, the Facebook mood experiment \u2013 and subsequent furore over how it uses data collected from its Messenger app \u2013 broke the data/desire trade-off: Facebook users didn't gain anything from it, no personalised content, no additional benefits or information. They felt used. The same principle applied when dating website OKCupid revealed it had experimented by matching the \"wrong\" people to see if they would connect anyway. One of OKCupid's founders, Christian Rudder, said in a blog about the company's data research: \"If you use the internet, you're the subject of hundreds of experiments at any given time, on every site. That's how websites work.\" Again, arguably the users didn't benefit as much as the company did in this information trade-off. Doing digital personalisation right LinkedIn's Connected app connects LinkedIn contacts with the user's phone contacts, alerting them to relevant news, information and push-alerts of key people already in their network, aiming to strengthen relationships. The visible benefits have meant users have welcomed the increased functionality in return for parting with their personal information. Customers are more likely to engage with brands which do this, as it enables them to feel more personalised, without crossing into the realm of perceived spying. Importantly, they are in control of whether they choose to engage or not. Personalisation doesn't necessarily have to involve a data element. Heinz's personalised Get Well soup campaign, where using a Facebook app, a user can choose a soup can and personalise it to be delivered to an ill friend was warmly received (excuse the pun). \"Using Facebook meant that we started with a base of existing, loyal Heinz Soup customers, who were already engaged with the brand,\" said Nigel Dickie, director of corporate and government affairs at Heinz. More than 96,000 people logged into Facebook to view the campaign, which reached 26 million people. Similarly, the #ShareACoke campaign uses personalisation to great success; allowing customers to share a \"virtual\" bottle online, find their own name on a product in a supermarket, or even order their own personalised glass bottle. The campaign received a viral bump, generating 1.1million Facebook likes, in response to a man proposing to his girlfriend using the personalised Coke bottles. Ofcom's Adults Media Use and Attitudes Report 2014 found that 42% of internet users are \"happy to provide personal information online to companies as long as they get what they want in return\". Digital marketers would do well to keep this front of mind when crafting their next hyper-personalised social media marketing campaign. Natasha Clark is a freelance media and technology journalist for Business Technology, the Independent and the Guardian \u2013 follow her on Twitter @NatashaClark92",
  "title": "Tailored experience or digital stalking? Has personalisation gone too far?",
  "lead": "Brands risk alienating consumers with overly invasive social campaigns, but there are ways to make them work for both sides, says Natasha Clark",
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/linkedin",
    "business/cocacola",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2014/aug/19/tailored-experience-or-digital-stalking-has-personalisation-gone-too-far",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}