{
  "content": "Louise Mensch, the Conservative MP for Corby and East Northamptonshire, has been very busy lately. She's set up a new social networking and discussion site, Menshn.com, which she claims is no pun on her surname, and is already being hailed by some as a rival to Twitter. Mensch said she and Luke Bozier, the former Labour digital adviser, launched it because they were \"frustrated\" with Twitter because it was so \"random\", failing to offer functionality that would allow a user to focus on a particular issue. The site, which she claims has already piqued the interest of venture capitalists, is so far available only to users based in the US, where it will focus on issues in the runup to the US election. There are plans to launch it in the UK just before the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. The local government advisory team of the accounting and business services firm BDO even took to Twitter to ask whether Menshn should be used by existing Twitter-using local governments instead, something that would appeal to Bozier, who is also the founder of the Municipo site. It may seem feasible \u2013 after all \u2013 there are plenty who want to engage in more focused and \"on topic\" debates. When news of the site emerged on Twitter, where Mensch has been able to raise her political and media profile and build up a 60,000-strong following in the process, it immediately sparked the #menshn Twitter stream, enabling tweeps to, well, discuss it. As expected, Mensch and Bozier's offering attracted much satire. There are also claims by those who've used it that its focus is too narrow and that it represents no more than a glorified set of chat rooms. The model that the site has adopted would also indicate a tendency more to the dictatorial, as opposed to the democratic. Site administrators decree what the topics for discussion are, as opposed to its users. This freedom of discussion and expression, which I would say is the best feature of Twitter, was the main reason why she called for Twitter and other social networking sites to be \"turned off\" last year, amid claims that it incited rioters in the countrywide riots. However, Mensch has said that the discussions will eventually expand to reflect users interests. Perhaps much in the way that Twitter currently does. The one thing that seems to have been overlooked amongst all the chatter about #menshn, is the fact that Mensch is already meant to be undertaking a full-time job for her Northamptonshire constituents. Before the last general election, David Cameron even ordered his then shadow cabinet members to give up second jobs in order to focus on being elected. Mensch, of course, is a backbencher, but given the state of the economy, with no region left untouched by the cuts, the need for MPs to concentrate on their office seems more urgent than ever. Even if Bozier was responsible for building the site, can Mensch make a convincing case that she has spent no time on getting the project ready for US users in just six short months (she claims to have had the idea around Christmas)? Mensch might reply that she has merely lent her name to the project: but should a politician in the public eye use their role to promote a private venture in the first place? The least you can say is that it sends out the wrong signal to the electorate. If there's anything that needs to be menshnd, particularly by her own constituents, surely it's this? \u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree",
  "title": "Should Louise Mensch be setting up a Twitter rival on the side? | Belinda Webb",
  "lead": "Belinda Webb: The Corby MP is behind a 'focused' discussion site that's already up and running in the US. Just don't Menshn the day job",
  "tags": [
    "politics/louise-mensch",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media",
    "politics/politics"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/jun/20/louise-mensch-menshn-twitter-rival",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}