{
  "content": "Here's a tip for the dynamic go-getter on a time and money budget who's determined to live the luxurious dream: when eating your lunchtime Pot Noodle, try putting on a CD of Handel's Music for the Royal Fireworks. It'll make everything seem so posh. Just close your eyes and each chemical forkful will be transformed to caviar as it crosses your tongue. Or, if not quite caviar, maybe a high-end ready meal. Or some toast made from expensive bread. At the very least, it'll elevate your perception of the quality of any jam you happen to be eating. How much probably depends on you, but on average it's 5%. This is one of the key findings of a survey published last week: that classical music isn't just good for discouraging teens from loitering around tube stations \u2013 it also makes shoppers overrate a product's quality by about a twentieth. The purpose of the study was to find out how our purchasing choices are affected by sounds. That's actually not true: the real purpose of the survey was to point out to everyone that eBay UK is 15 years old. I doubt whether, deep down, anyone much cares how our purchasing choices are affected by sounds (unless your drug dealer's use of Elgar has made you mistake normal cannabis for skunk). But some people do care that eBay UK is 15 \u2013 mostly because it's their job to try to keep everyone perpetually mindful of eBay UK's existence, and an anniversary provides a very-slightly-more-interesting-than-usual angle on their Sisyphean awareness-maintaining task. (By the way, I'm sorry I have to keep saying eBay UK, rather than just eBay \u2013 but that's because eBay, the American bit, isn't 15, it's 18. It's 19 next month, in fact. So it's not like the whole of eBay is 15 \u2013 that would obviously be massive news.) In honour of this divisible-by-five birthday of a subsidiary, the people at eBay UK decided to pay some other people to care about how our purchasing choices are affected by sounds \u2013 just to show they can; to demonstrate the awesome power of money, like the son of a plutocrat making a nun do a striptease in exchange for a massive orphanage-saving donation. The Mother Superior in nipple tassels here is Patrick Fagan, an expert in consumer behaviour at Goldsmiths, University of London, who headed up the survey, and who had the support of a convent of a further 2,000 metaphorical gyrating nuns. These participants were monitored as they engaged in simulated online shopping while various noises were played around them, and then analysis was done on how the different hubbubs had affected their eye for a bargain. Like classical music, the burble of a restaurant made them more spendthrift, while football commentary and pop music increased the canniness of their decisions. So Beethoven makes things seem classy and Girls Aloud makes them seem cheap. Cheap as in shoddy, not cheap as in inexpensive \u2013 that's the sort of cheap Beethoven makes them seem. The survey provided no insight into people's reasons for buying a budgie. The clever thing about the study is the implied dig at high street retailers. Only when shopping online \u2013 or onphone, ontablet or ongamesconsole \u2013 do people have any control over the ambient noise amid which they make their purchases. If you're shopping in an actual shop, the management decides what you hear, and this survey leaves them with a stark choice: play classical music and come across as profiteers, or play pop and make your wares seem shit. Those horrible, physically existent shops are the manipulative ones, the survey is saying, impoverishing you with their piped-in Vivaldi. You know where you are with the internet \u2013 it's clean and modern and honest and not just a bunch of amoral data-pillagers denuding our city centres of commerce. Facebook is also jumping on to the Rapacious-Internet-Giants-4-Transparency bandwagon. It's trying out a scheme whereby spoof or humorous articles will automatically be tagged with the word \"Satire\", like in the Monty Python Architect Sketch, but this time not as a joke but as a joke killer. The joy of websites such as the Onion is that the daft, surreal or satirical is presented as if it's news. Like The Day Today on television, it deports itself in a parody of the vanity and hyperbole shown by the institutions with which we keep ourselves informed. This gives its satire another dimension which would be completely undermined if all its items were pre-labelled by Facebook. It would be like watching a sitcom during which the caption \"This programme has been created in an attempt to amuse\" perpetually flashes. If you tell someone something's supposed to be funny, they're much less likely to find it so, because a large part of what makes people laugh is surprise. This scheme has all the humour-sapping banality of a continuity announcer putting a chuckle in his voice when referring to the zaniness of the comedy show he's introducing, and doesn't even carry the same implication of approval. And why is Facebook doing it? To help people so thick that, if they've got internet access, they must surely be beyond saving \u2013 it can only be a matter of time before they take out huge pay-day loans and put all the money on red \u2014 or those so voracious in their thirst for outrage that they won't allow a synapse beat of thought between reading something and typing a crazed response. It's the witless pandering to the thoughtless. In fact, it's more sinister than that. This is being done so that Facebook, like eBay UK, can come across as safe and reliable. Comedy and nuance are just collateral damage, caused by the corporation's ploy to try to look like it doesn't wish to deceive you. The \"Satire\" label is designed to make you think that Facebook has your (rather than its) best interests at heart. It's trying to create a pervading false sense of security in which to make us all its data bitch. That's a far more ambitious scheme for inducing imprudence than piping in some Mozart.",
  "title": "Trust us, say the online giants \u2013 we won't make you think for yourself | David Mitchell",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/ebay",
    "money/online-shopping"
  ],
  "lead": "David Mitchell: Are eBay and Facebook trying to protect users from their own stupidity with their nannying tactics? It's more sinister than that",
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/aug/24/trust-us-online-giants-ebay-facebook-satire-tag",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}