{
  "content": "The newspaper industry is pressing ahead with plans to launch a new watchdog and hopes to have it up and running early in 2014 despite reservations from some titles, including the Guardian and Financial Times. Paul Vickers, chairman of the industry implementation group which is behind the drive to establish the Independent Press Standards Organisation (Ipso), said on Friday that \"very significant progress has been made\" in relation to legal and contractual documentation. \"Work is well underway on the financing arrangements for Ipso,\" he added in a statement. Guardian Media Group, publisher of the Guardian, is in what have been described as constructive discussions with the core group of newspaper owners, led by Daily Mail publisher Associated Newspapers and News UK, which publishes the Sun, Times and Sunday Times, and attended a four-hour meeting of the implementation group on Wednesday. Vickers said the group tasked with selecting an independent appointments panel to create the Ipso board was also making progress under the chairmanship of Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers. \"We hope that we will be in a position to begin signing contracts that will establish Ipso during late September and October with a view to implementation of the new regulatory system, fully compliant with the Leveson principles, in the early part of the new year,\" the statement said. Getting the framework in place by the end of September may give the industry a tactical advantage as long as there is a resolution of issues related to reservations held by the Guardian, the Financial Times and the Independent in relation to the independence of the body. If agreement can be reached, the industry will be able to present a united front to the government ahead of a critical meeting of the privy council on 10 October, at which the industry's royal charter will be considered for approval. The body will be financed by the industry with contributions apportioned according to the size of each newspaper group that signs up. Both the Guardian and the FT have expressed reservations that the present framework gives undue influence to the main funders, the Daily Mail publisher, Associated Newspapers, the Sun and Times publisher, News UK, Telegraph Media Group and Trinity Mirror. It is understood the Independent has similar concerns. Hacked Off, the group that campaigns for tougher regulation on behalf of victims of press intrusion, has been insisting that the government reject the industry's royal charter-backed watchdog and approve a rival proposal that got cross-party agreement in March. \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@theguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Press regulation: industry presses on with new watchdog despite reservations",
  "lead": "Ipso expected to be running by early 2014 but Guardian, Independent and Financial Times still have concerns. By Lisa O'Carroll",
  "tags": [
    "media/press-regulation",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/theguardian",
    "media/financialtimes",
    "media/theindependent",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/associated-newspapers",
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/ipso"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2013/sep/06/press-regulation-ipso-guardian-financial-times",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}