{
  "content": "Sixty thousand pounds may be the most ever paid in damages in a privacy action, but it is not as much as Max Mosley has been spending a year on his sadomasochism, and it is mere chickenfeed for the News of the World (though its costs are heavy). So no one's going to get very excited about the price of the damages. But Mr Justice Eady's decision in Mosley's favour is significant all the same, for it confirms that Britain, while hitherto resistant to the introduction of a privacy law, has actually had one all along: it is based on the European Convention on Human Rights, to which Britain subscribes. The trouble with this is that practically nobody who is not a lawyer has ever read the European Convention on Human Rights, and that its broad principles supporting both respect for privacy and freedom of expression are difficult to interpret in practice. So this enables judges to more or less make up the law as they go along. And a judge like Eady, who doesn't like the News of the World (and who can blame him?), is perfectly at liberty to teach it a lesson if he feels like it. And in this case, there is no reason to argue with his decision. If the right to privacy means anything, it must mean the right to engage in even the most unbecoming activities without publicity if they are legal and carried out in private. The News of the World's defence was that exposing Mosley's clandestine sex games and putting a video of them on its website was in the public interest, but that defence was always weak. Mosley is only an important man in the world of formula one motor racing, and it's hard to see how his S&amp;M addiction affects his competence in that field. It seems, however, that he might have lost his case if the judge had agreed with the News of the World that he had participated in a \"sick Nazi orgy\". Arguments about this dominated the court hearings, though I don't see why it would have been in the public interest for us to know about that, had it been true. Even Nazi fantasies aren't inimical to efficient formula one management. It could, however, be highly libellous to accuse anyone of such a thing, especially the son of Sir Oswald Mosley, and I wonder why Mosley didn't bring an action for libel, which, if successful, might have earned him a much higher settlement. As it was, Eady found he had been completely innocent of it. He said there had been no evidence that Mosley's S&amp;M session \"was intended to be an enactment of Nazi behaviour or adoption of any of its attitudes. Nor was it in fact.\" The mistake, made by me as well as by the News of the World, was to think that prostitutes dressed in prison uniforms and people speaking in silly German accents suggested Nazi nostalgia, which only goes to show how stuck we are with the old cliches. If there is one statement by Eady that I question, it is that Mosley \"is hardly exaggerating when he says that his life was ruined\". Mosley doesn't talk like a man whose life is ruined. He seems full of confidence and bravado. He has obviously suffered excruciating embarrassment, and a very difficult time with his family, but I would be astonished if he didn't carry on much as before. He is not a sensitive soul; he is as tough as old boots and seemingly most unlikeable, though definitely not a Nazi like his dad. Bill Gates is now throwing his weight and his wealth behind efforts to curb smoking in the developing world. He is joining up with Michael Bloomberg, the mayor of New York City, in a $500m campaign to propagate the dangers of smoking abroad and to get governments to impose bans in countries where the habit is still tolerated. But there is no evidence in the reports I have read that he is targeting some of the chief villains in the matter, who are his compatriots in the American tobacco industry. For years now, the American tobacco companies have been trying to make up for falling sales in the developed world by aggressive marketing of cigarettes in poorer countries. This has stirred much anti-American resentment and, in Russia, has caused an astonishing outburst by the country's chief public health official, Gennady Onishchenko. Threatening prosecution of the Russian tobacco companies that manufacture American cigarettes under licence, he accused them this week of being \"flunkies of US capital\" and participants in \"nicotine genocide\". \"The superprofits of US corporations are being paid for by catastrophic repercussions for the health of the young generation of Russians,\" he said. This is stirring stuff and brings back fond memories of the cold war. The rhetoric of those days may have fallen into disuse, but is clearly still there to be drawn on when the need arises. Maybe Dawn Primarolo, the public health minister, who is campaigning against Britain's booze culture, will find inspiration from it in her dealings with the alcohol industry, to which she has promised \"a far tougher approach\". Having said that, I have to admit that I am still smoking - though, as always, planning to give up soon. I have recently tried a rechargeable \"electronic cigarette\", which isn't a cigarette at all but an excellent imitation of one. This may be the answer. Not only does it feed you the nicotine you crave; it exudes clouds of harmless vapour and its tip glows reassuringly when you suck it. I am particularly looking forward to \"smoking\" it in restaurants and cinemas, where I will be able to say boo to anyone who tries to stop me. But it will doubtless be banned in due course, like imitation handguns, for causing unnecessary alarm. This week Alexander went to Mamma Mia and adored it: \"It is possibly the silliest film I have ever seen, but its sheer gusto and shameless absurdity made me feel very happy.\" He also watched Barack Obama live in Berlin and marvelled at his poise.",
  "title": "Alexander Chancellor: Max Mosley isn't a Nazi - and Britain has had a privacy law all along",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/mosley",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Alexander Chancellor: If it had been true, even Nazi fantasies aren't inimical to efficient formula one management",
  "id": "commentisfree/2008/jul/25/mosley.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}