{
  "content": "One of the greatest achievements of reality television gameshows has been the promotion of a distinctive ethical principle: that almost the worst thing you can do is be \"two-faced\". To say one thing to one group of people and something else to another is widely regarded as the epitome of dishonesty. And the very worst thing? The failure to be \"true\" to yourself \u2013 to moderate or modify your public appearance in response to the expectations of others. Adapt to circumstances But if you want to persuade people, or simply communicate clearly, the last thing you should do is say the same thing to everyone and refuse to adapt to circumstances. On the contrary, the first step in developing a good argument is to think about how to fit it to the situation in which you find yourself. It used to be that skill in this was considered a virtue. Rhetoricians called it \"decorum\". Today we think of being \"decorous\" as conforming. But all it means is being \"fitting\" \u2013 using words and arguments that are \"apt\" given the situation. It is generally a bad idea to give an expletive-packed wedding speech that endlessly insults the bride, not because expletives and insults are always bad but because they are at odds with the mood of collective celebration characteristic of weddings. Similarly, an economist explaining the Phillips curve ought to do so differently if talking to a niece taking business studies GCSE, the retired sales executive next door or a room full of trade unionists. Know your audience In making an argument you are trying to bring three things into alignment: yourself, your words and your audience. You are trying to move your audience so that it is in agreement with you \u2013 but to do that you need to move too. And between you \u2013 what moves you both \u2013 is a form of words and a set of arguments. If you are inflexible, using words and making references that are completely at odds with your audience you won't persuade anybody of anything (except of the view that you are unconvincing and unintelligible). In practical terms this simply means that you need to know your audience. Cicero, the Roman philosopher, rhetorician and politician, believed that the perfect orator would have to master everything to do with the life of other citizens: laws and customs, traditions and general outlooks, \"the way people usually think\". In becoming familiar with the general outlooks of other people, as well as the particular outlook of specific groups, you are better placed to adapt your argument as needed. A problem in the present day is that contemporary communications media make decorum extremely difficult, if not completely impossible. Politicians have long been aware that words said in one context may be rebroadcast in quite another. They have tended to deal with this by being bland and non-commital or by supplementing what they say with briefing and spin. In adopting such positions on the basis of opinion polls and focus groups politicians make the opposite mistake to the foul-mouthed best man. They forget their argument and give themselves over entirely to the audience (who, in turn, succumb to boredom). It's not only politicians who can find their words taken and used in a quite unexpected context. These days any of us might be live-tweeted or filmed and put online. The examples are piling up of those who forgot that what they said on social media was not private but being said to everybody. On below-the-line comments boards \u2013 where most are anonymous or pseudonymous \u2013 it is difficult to be sure who one is talking to. This is one reason why people on Guardian comment threads often try to appeal to the (possibly imaginary) audience they know that exists: the moderators, subeditors, or \"Guardian readers\". Pitching to the third party But if you want to persuade you need to have a better idea of the audience you mean to reach. And it isn't the person whose comments you are attacking. On BBC Question Time Russell Brand is never going to persuade Melanie Phillips, and she will never sway him. They'd be foolish to try. They are trying to persuade the people watching them. It is the same online. Persuasive arguments will be pitched to a \"third party\" \u2013 the audience of readers. Of course you don't know who that audience is. Are they old or young, male or female, new to the topic or experienced? Yet all of us, when we start to compose some kind of general argument, has in mind an \"ideal\" or \"typical\" audience. It is worth being clear to yourself who you think this is. It shouldn't be people who think exactly as you do \u2013 since those aren't people you need to persuade. Nor should it be a bunch of idiosyncratic types who think like nobody else. Let's be reasonable It needs to be something like generally \"reasonable\" people, neither fanatical nor obstinate, informed but not specialist. What views or outlooks can you assume they share? What are they likely to think decent, kind and reasonable and what might they think is unacceptable, unkind and daft? Be clear on this and you can start to think about how to argue your case. That means paying attention to, and thinking about, other people, their feelings and experiences. If you want to have a chance of persuading people then you need to have a lot more than two faces. Don't be true to yourself. Be true to your arguments.",
  "title": "How to judge your audience and remain true to your arguments | Protagoras",
  "lead": "Protagoras: How to argue: Being two-faced has had a bad rap recently. But to convince people of your argument you have to adapt it to your audience",
  "tags": [
    "science/language",
    "science/science",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "politics/politics"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/sep/10/how-judge-audience-true-argument",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}