{
  "content": "An addictive Tweeter on our patch who is zapping out a condensed Bible at 140 words a day is almost halfway through his task. Durham preacher Chris Juby, who is also a freelance web developer, has passed the 500 mark in a marathon which will end when he has sent out the last of 1,189 precised versions of the chapters which he reads \u2013 one a day \u2013 every morning. He began in August 2010 in between his duties as director of worship at the King's Church in Durham and is now immersed in one of the longest and most challenging sections, the Psalms. Here's an example from this week: Psalm 37, which Juby trimmed down to an upbeat: Do not be envious of evildoers, for they will fade like the grass. The righteous will inherit the earth. The Lord is their stronghold. Yesterday's is a little more complaining, as the Children of Israel tried different ways of coping with hard times. Psalm 44: O God, our fathers have told us how you drove out the nations. But now you have sold your people. Awake, O Lord! Rise up and help us. The project is a hit on Twitter, with Juby's account twitter.com/biblesummary now attracting more than 21,000 followers. He says: Tweeting through the Psalms is quite an undertaking in itself. It's going to take five months. But I love the their passion and honesty. You learn how to engage with God through pretty much every human experience. I would encourage anyone who's interested to read along with me. There's an archive of the Tweets at biblesummary.info You can also read here about other Tweetathons involving the Bible, such as the Twible, the FakeBible and What Would God Tweet? Plus the reminder that even the handiest Tweeter would be challenged by the economy of the shortest verse in the good book: St John Ch 11 v 35 \u2013 'Jesus wept.'",
  "title": "Bible Tweeter is almost halfway there",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/religion",
    "technology/twitter",
    "law/twitter-joke-trial",
    "education/durhamuniversity",
    "world/anglicanism"
  ],
  "lead": "Chris Juby's edifying marathon tops 500 Tweets and is marching on through the Psalms",
  "id": "uk/the-northerner/2012/jan/12/bible-marathon-tweeting-twitter-tweet-chrisjuby",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}