{
  "content": "Rob Proctor is the head of Europe, Middle East and Asia (EMEA) for Reality Digital. The San Francisco-based company has 35 employees and just closed a $7m series B round of funding. The service makes it easy for companies to add social media functions to their web sites. \u2022 Explain your business to my Mum. Reality Digital has developed a platform that provides the plumbing for web site publishers to easily add social media functionality \u2013 blogs, forums, video upload and syndication, etc - onto their web sites. Reality takes care of all the integration, storage, serving and moderation issues associated with user generated content. \u2022 How does that work? Because Reality Digital has taken all the individual elements of social media and placed them onto single platform, publishers no longer need to build in house 'bespoke' solutions. The ultimate result of this is that publishers can reduce costs, speed up implementation and reduce their dependency on in house IT resources. Whilst Reality Digital continues to innovate and create great new features, we also realise that collaboration is key to our ongoing development, to this end we have partnership agreements with Microsoft and Adobe, who rely on Reality Digital to provide the key service element for some of their latest products including Adobe's 'Premier Express Service' which allows customers to imbed Adobe Premier video editing software directly into their site, thus allowing users to create and edit videos in real time, before publishing to the web e.g. http://replay-re-cutter.nfl.com \u2022 How do you make money? RD charges an initial set up and integration fee (variable dependant upon client specification) and then an ongoing monthly management fee. \u2022 Any weird business experiences so far? Naturally we had assumed that the credit crunch would make trading difficult for us, but we are actually now seeing stronger growth, as enterprise publishers have begun to realise the cost benefits of SaaS (software as a service) against the cost of developing solutions in house. \u2022 What's your background? I founded Internet Exchange back in '96, which grew to become the World's largest public Internet access company, helping to launch several major brands onto the Internet, including: Fujitsu Siemens Computers and Western Union Online. More recently I was Head of EMEA for Adify \u2013 The vertical advertising network builder, up until our acquisition by Cox Communications for $300m in May 2008. \u2022 How are personalisation and recommendation part of your business? Reality Digital and its products are all about personalisation both for our direct publishing customers and the interactive features that they in turn offer their users. Ultimately the only sustainable way to build a new business is through recommendation and with a client list that includes: MTV, the NFL, ITV and Vodafone, Reality Digital is in the enviable position of having great reference clients for any prospective customers to talk to. \u2022 How will you survive the second dot com crash? I wasn't aware that there was one, with ad budgets finally moving from old push media formats \u2013 TV and Radio and moving to on line I see our industry being in a great position. Especially as more users are spending longer on social media sites, we feel that we provide functionality that nearly every publisher needs. \u2022 How many users do you have now, and what's your target within 12 months? Currently Reality Digital has 5 major UK customers, my target for our first full year of operations is 20 UK customers, 5 master licensees in Europe, 2 in India and The Middle East \u2022 Which tech businesses or web thinkers are the ones to watch? I think that the creative agencies are going to be big influencers over the next few years, taking innovative new technology and delivering truly effective opportunities and solutions for their customers. The creative guys have realized that banners in what ever form \u2013 Flash, rich, expandable etc. are no longer effective tools for communicating with web users. New inclusive, consensual environments need to be created in order to engage with web 2.0 users. You could do a lot worse than buy JP Edwards lunch and pick his brains for an hour or so! I also think that CPL or Cost Per Lead campaigns will grow massively over the next couple of years. They provide advertisers with qualified business opportunities, where users have actively 'opted in'. The big issue with CPL has been data handling and protection, where a number of people handle the data on the way to the client. However these issues have now been solved by companies such as Goallover. Their new 'LOLA' platform allows data capture, de-duplication and cleansing without human intervention. Goallover is definitely a 'one to watch'. \u2022 Who's your mentor? Sorry, don't really have one. But I think that I am now working with the best CEO of my career \u2013 Cynthia Francis. \u2022 How do you plan to survive the financial crisis? Write good business, the tendency at times like this is to chase everything, but in the long run, you're better off spending time on valued customers and relationships\u2026..'a bird in the hand' and all that! \u2022 What's your biggest challenge? Creating awareness and recognition of the Reality Digital brand, products and services both in the UK and across Europe. Whilst keeping the customer at the heart of our growth. This will require Reality Digital to grow its head count rapidly but with only the highest caliber of colleagues. In a industry that is growing this rapidly recruiting the right people will always be an issue. \u2022 How's your work/life balance? Pretty good I think. I actually live in Croyde, North Devon. I stay in London through the week and am back home on the beach on Friday afternoons. I think my wife is pretty happy to get me out of her way for a few days every week. \u2022 What's the most important piece of software or web tool that you use each day? It's boring but it has to be Outlook, but Salesforce and Yahoo IM are vital as well, our whole company is on IM so you can always get hold of people, which is important when your head office is a few thousand miles away. \u2022 Name your closest competitors. Ning and Awareness networks \u2022 Where do you want the company to be in five years? Established offices in: London, Paris and Germany (Frankfurt or Hamburg). Strong and flourishing Master License partners in the rest of the world. All of which are serving enterprise and entrepreneurial partners around the World. In terms of technology I would like to see us remain at the leading edge of social media innovation, creating exciting new ways for users to take control of their bit of cyberspace. Reality Digital is in a pretty crowded market space with many other companies offering similar services. \u2022 What do they have to do to stand out? \u2022 Can they compete with open-source options and the integrators that are growing up to help companies implement those options? \u2022 Is $7m in funding enough to take them to the next level? What do you think? I bet a few of you believe that you're a competitor of Reality Digital. How are you convincing potential customers that you're better?",
  "title": "Elevator Pitch: Reality Digital aims to make UGC easy",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/microsoft"
  ],
  "lead": "With a new round of funding, Reality Digital hopes to expand its user-generated content platform internationally",
  "id": "media/pda/2009/jul/07/socialnetworking-blogging",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}