{
  "content": "The White House has urged Beijing to acknowledge, investigate and halt the widespread hacking of US firms, with Barack Obama's national security adviser warning of intrusions from China on \"an unprecedented scale\". Thomas Donilon described cyber-attacks as a growing challenge to the bilateral economic relationship, in the administration's most pointed comments to date on the issue. His remarks, in a speech to the Asia Society in New York, came two days after China's foreign minister, Yang Jiechi, rejected accusations that its military was behind massive hacking attacks, describing the claims as a smear campaign. \"Increasingly, US businesses are speaking out about their serious concerns about sophisticated, targeted theft of confidential business information and proprietary technologies through cyber-intrusions emanating from China on an unprecedented scale,\" Donilon said. \"We seek three things from the Chinese side. First, we need a recognition of the urgency and scope of this problem and the risk it poses \u2013 to international trade, to the reputation of Chinese industry and to our overall relations. Second, Beijing should take serious steps to investigate and put a stop to these activities. Finally, we need China to engage with us in a constructive direct dialogue to establish acceptable norms of behaviour in cyberspace.\" In his state of the union address in February, Obama warned: \"America must also face the rapidly growing threat from cyber-attacks. \"We know foreign countries and companies swipe our corporate secrets \u2026 We cannot look back years from now and wonder why we did nothing in the face of real threats to our security and our economy.\" But he did not single out China, as Donilon did in his remarks on Monday. Last month, a report from internet security firm Mandiant said it believed that a Chinese military unit based in Shanghai had carried out \"sustained\" attacks on a wide range of industries, stealing huge amounts of data. In China's highest level response to date, its foreign minister said on Saturday: \"Anyone who tries to fabricate or piece together a sensational story to serve their political motive will not be able to blacken the name of others or whitewash themselves. \"We hope the relevant parties will stop irresponsible attacks or accusations.\" Speaking to reporters at a press conference on the sidelines of the annual session of China's legislature, Yang added: \"We oppose turning cyberspace into a new battlefield or using the internet as a new tool to interfere in other countries' internal affairs.\" He said that as a major target for hackers, China supported international rules and co-operation on such issues. China's defence ministry had already denied the claims of military involvement in hacking, adding that almost two-thirds of the cyber-attacks on its own military websites originated from the US. Foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said on Tuesday: \"Cyberspace needs rules and co-operation, not wars. China is willing to have constructive dialogue and co-operation with the global community, including the United States.\"",
  "title": "US calls on Chinese government to crack down on hacking",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/china",
    "world/asia-pacific",
    "world/world",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "us-news/obama-administration",
    "us-news/us-politics"
  ],
  "lead": "Obama's national security adviser urges China to recognise risk cyber-attacks pose to international relations",
  "id": "world/2013/mar/12/us-chinese-government-hacking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}