{
  "content": "It is to be admired whenever a judge steps down from their wooden pulpit to address the concerns of ordinary people. Lord Justice Sedley, a senior appeal court judge, did just that this morning when he labelled \"indefensible\" the storage of four million people's details on this country's DNA database. He told BBC News: \"We have a situation where if you happen to have been in the hands of the police then your DNA is on permanent record. If you haven't, it isn't. It means where there is ethnic profiling going on disproportionate numbers of ethnic minorities get onto the database.\" This argument will be immediately understandable for all those who have ever attracted unwanted attention for being in possession of black or brown skin while in the presence of a police officer. As I wrote in The Guardian back in May, a quarter of those whose DNA details have been stored on the national police database after being arrested - but not charged or convicted - were black, Asian, Chinese or Middle Eastern. This means that innocent members of ethnic minority communities are almost three times more likely than innocent white people to have details of their DNA on the database. And, innocent or not, it is notoriously difficult to have those details removed. But Sir Stephen Sedley's solution, which is that it would be fairer to add the whole population - \"everybody, guilty or innocent\" - to the database, is frightening. Surely we can't agree that the answer to the ill treatment of some sections of the population is to spread such ill treatment to everybody? Yes, this approach would tackle the problem of disproportionality - if everyone was on the database, nobody could complain about being unfairly over-represented. But this hardly addresses either the root causes of discrimination within the criminal justice system or the legitimate concerns about living in a country that considers keeping these kinds of tabs on its citizens acceptable. Over the past two decades, the powers of the state to retain details of our DNA has increased at an alarming rate. Where once it was acceptable to take mouth swabs only from people who were suspected of having committed a \"serious and arrestable offence\" and it was stipulated that samples must be destroyed where a person was acquitted or not prosecuted, now police are allowed to retain samples and fingerprints from anybody charged with a crime, regardless of the outcome. As with many criminal justice measures, these changes have affected black people, and those from other ethnic minority backgrounds, disproportionately. Last year, it was reported that the authorities now hold the DNA profiles of nearly four in 10 black men in the UK. Let's address the causes of such unfairness before we extend the tentacles of the state any further.",
  "title": "The sticky prints of justice",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "law/law",
    "politics/dna-database"
  ],
  "lead": "Laura Smith: Spreading the DNA database to cover the whole population may indeed be fairer - but it's the wrong solution.",
  "id": "commentisfree/2007/sep/05/thestickyprintsofjustice",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}