{
  "content": "One minute, there was no crisis. Lord Wakeham was doing an excellent job and Prime Ministers and princes flocked admiringly to the door of the Press Complaints Commission. Then, like Enron, Lord W's hegemony imploded; and the PCC was back in the pits. This time, though, the problem didn't come from outside - no royals moaning about sneak photographs; no Blair folding Euan's comfort blanket. This time the problem came from within, from broadsheet editors - Moore of the Telegraph, Rusbridger of the Guardian, Kelner of the Independent - dumping publicly on the Commission's supposedly chummy and flexible way with mediations. Do governments and restless backbenchers think all is well with press self-regulation? They tend not to when the papers they read - from left or right - are full of doubts and sorrows. They look round for reform, for a better way. One such a reforming idea is already familiar to Observer and Guardian readers; and it may spread. Readers' editors, there to dispense instant corrections, clarifications or admonitions, begin to cluster in the shadow of the PCC. Ministers such as Tessa Jowell are sitting up and taking interest. If what we have goes belly up, here, perhaps, is a ground-up replacement. Alan Rusbridger certainly thinks so. The relationship between newspaper and reader is central, he says, to what happens after Wakeham. His own (1997) 'decision to create the first readers' editor in Britain was inspired by the seriousness with which the larger American daily papers approach the task of getting things right'. The PCC's workload - 2,225 complaints against all British newspapers and magazines in 2000, compared with 7,634 in the same year to the Guardian's readers' editor alone - 'suggests that it cannot be regarded as a rigorous self-policing mechanism for the industry at large'. Rusbridger is right to be bullish. His first and continuing readers' editor, Ian Mayes, not only provides a swiftly efficient service, but writes about it with a wry wisdom. Readers seem to love this particular editor of their own. Piers Morgan at the Mirror and Roger Alton on The Observer are finding similarly enthusiastic responses. So why not roll the scheme out across all national papers? No reason, at least in theory: everybody, the PCC included, has an interest in innovative self-regulation. Acting chairman Robert Pinker says so openly. The problem lies with the word 'scheme'. America, serious or not, doesn't have a scheme. A few big papers (most influentially the Washington Post) have ombudsmen who write a column and correct errors. But these are ad hoc initiatives. The US, for all its love of regulation, has no Press Complaints Commission, no code of practice, nothing. Utter such words and editors run from the room. Almost to a man, they see self-regulation as undermining their First Amendment rights. Better still, because they basically operate regional monopolies of the one-paper-fits-all variety, they can opt out of any industry-wide initiatives while adopting a lofty Rotarian gravity which leaves tabloid taint suitably distanced from their lives: on a separate supermarket shelf. Nothing to do with us, guv. The question for Britain is very different. How does a fiercely competitive press get its act together when every move, every miscalculation, may spell personal doom for an editor devoid of readers? We had readers' representatives for a brief while at the start of the Nineties, and some were distinguished outsiders. (The Independent chose Sir Gordon Downey, who went on to be parliamentary commissioner.) But that scheme was spottily conceived and implemented. This paper, like others, simply re-titled and defined its existing managing editor (who always dealt pretty well with readers' complaints anyway). It was all, with hindsight, a transit zone to the broader church of the PCC. It was a passing on, not a drawing back. And now the parcel is passing back and forth again. The PCC, it seems, used to be the answer: now, maybe, it's not - too inbred, too cosy, too prone to conciliate rather than regulate. These aren't foolish criticisms. A regulator wearily and uniquely used to bellyaches from Buckingham Palace or Downing Street every five minutes is bound to hunch in introversion and celebrate success by throwing florid parties for its most important clients. A stiffer regulatory zeal may be just what's needed. But the basic problem is deeper. Since Wakeham's reign imploded, what we've seen, variously from the dissenting broadsheets, is fracturings of the common cause that produced the Commission and would drive it forward. Meanwhile, judges in cases from Naomi Campbell to Jamie Theakston go about their own law-creating business. Readers' editors are a very bright idea. There should be more of them and that would help the PCC turn more regulatory. But how (for editors and their readers) do you build a consensus behind that when the problem, all too evidently, is a lack of consensus? Once upon a recent time, editors Rusbridger and Kelner would have served their time as PCC commissioners inside the tent. Now they're left on the outside, devising their own ways to do better. When Pinker counsels against rapid change, he maybe underestimates how much has changed in the PCC's first decade. When Fleet Street is abruptly asked to concentrate in a crisis, we also see how the sweetly peaceful years of Wakeham have deluded newspapers into thinking a problem that sleeps is a problem solved.",
  "title": "Readers' editors do a great job, but the real work is the PCC's",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "business/business",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pcc",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Peter Preston on how consensus on press regulation has fractured in the wake of Lord Wakeham. By Peter Preston",
  "id": "media/2002/mar/10/pressandpublishing.business",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}