{
  "content": "When Facebook launched the Facebook Places feature in its mobile apps, the focus was on people checking in to locations to let friends know where they were. A recent update let them also check in to events, and according to head of international business development Christian Hernandez Gallardo, those events should include TV shows. Speaking at the Connected Creativity Forum in Cannes on Wednesday, he described the new feature as giving people the ability to check in to \"a time and place\", and said that broadcasters and TV producers should \"think about having a time and a place around every single episode of your series\". \"You begin to create these hubs where you can take the passionate screaming and bring them together, because you realise that 10 of your friends are watching Top Gear at the same time,\" he said. \"We've talked to broadcasters about putting their whole EPG as events on Facebook, and letting people RSVP to them to get a reminder.\" If more people start checking in to TV shows on Facebook, it will be a threat to startups like GetGlue, Miso and IntoNow who are focusing on this area \u2013 not to mention the TV Check app unveiled by Orange at MIPTV this week. Hernandez also encouraged the TV industry to think of Facebook as a platform for distributing content and making money from it, not just for promoting it and engaging with viewers. He cited the example of Warner Bros, which is renting streaming movies on Facebook paid for with the Facebook Credits currency. He also flagged up a new partnership with mobile payments company MIG, which will help broadcasters charge people to vote in reality shows, again paid for with Facebook Credits. Hernandez also said Facebook has designs on becoming a key factor in the discovery of TV shows. \"The thing I'm dying to make social is the EPG,\" he said, suggesting that if people were able to log in to their set-top boxes or televisions using their Facebook ID, they would be able to get recommendations of shows to watch based on the content they have Liked in the past, and the content that their friends are watching. He highlighted one mobile app, Numote, which is trying to do this on the iPhone, but said there are several other startups focusing on social EPG apps, using Facebook's social graph. \"That is a social experience for TV.\"",
  "title": "Facebook says TV shows should be using Facebook Places check-ins",
  "lead": "Stuart Dredge: But Christian Hernandez Gallardo also says 'the thing I'm dying to make social is the EPG'",
  "tags": [
    "technology/apps",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/television",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/appsblog/2011/apr/06/facebook-places-tv-industry",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}