{
  "content": "San Francisco-based Tiny Pictures have built an userbase of more than one million people to their Radar service, a fusion of Flickr and Twitter. The firm employs 20 people and started in 2005, with funding from Draper Fisher Jurvetson and Mohr Davidow Ventures. Founder and chief executive John Poisson explains the idea. Tiny Pictures founder and chief executive John Poisson. \u2022 Explain your business to my Mum \"I'll use an actual quote from my Mom when I apologised for not calling often enough: 'That's okay - at least we have Radar so I know what you're up to.'\" \u2022 How does that work? \"Most people take cameraphone pictures of the things happening around them, but the experience and economics of sharing are problematic, so those pictures just stay on your phone or get offloaded to a PC later on. Radar makes it easy for you to instantly share those pictures and videos with all your friends at once, and for all of you to engage in an ongoing visual conversation around those shared pictures. \"So when I don't call my parents often enough, they still know I'm well because they're seeing what I'm doing all day, and conversing with me and my friends around the moments I've shared on Radar.\" \u2022 How do you make money? \"Radar is ad-supported, with two models: both traditional banner ads on some parts of the service, and sponsored content channels that deliver you pictures and videos from brands or properties you're interested in. \"Fans of the recent Paramount film Tropic Thunder could subscribe to the Tropic Thunder channel on Radar, and receive behind-the-scenes footage and chat with other fans of the film. This notion of content-as-advertising delivered in line with your personal content is proving to be a very important part of our business, and both brands and users have responded very enthusiastically. \"Globally the UK is our largest market after the US, and we've seen steady growth across Europe. Our focus for the next six months is to continue our direct-to-consumer approach across the EU and begin layering in operator and advertising partnerships.\" \u2022 What's your background? \"Prior to founding this company, I spent a few years in Tokyo working for Sony, where I led a mobile media research and design group. My early career was in cinematography, editing and visual effects for film and television.\" \u2022 Are we in the middle of a new dot com bubble? \"I think the past weeks here in the States indicate that the bubble, if there is one, has far less to do with dot com or Web 2.0 and more to do with irrationality and overexuberance elsewhere. We're comparatively sheltered from the storm at the moment, especially since mobile is such a growth sector, and we're so internationally focused.\" \u2022 How many users do you have now, and what's your target within 12 months? \"We're well over a million users worldwide, and on a path to hit five million in a year's time.\" \u2022 Which tech businesses or web thinkers are the ones to watch? \"I think the team at Blyk are doing some very innovative thinking about how to create true engagement in mobile advertising. Also, there's a service that just launched in the US called The Next Big Sound. They're basically doing an end-run around the utterly broken music industry model for finding new acts. They just might be the next big thing.\" \u2022 Who's your mentor? \"Joi Ito, a well-known Web 2.0 investor, and LinkedIn founder Reid Hoffman are angel investors in Tiny Pictures, and they were enormously helpful in my getting the company started and getting to know the venture capital community here in the Bay Area.\" \u2022 What's your biggest challenge? \"Choosing carefully. We've built a product that's proving relevant and engaging in just about every market, and we've made sure the service works well on any handset on any network. But we need to focus our resources on adapting the service for the markets that show the most promise, and striking the right partnerships that add value to our efforts.\" \u2022 How's you work/life balance? \"That's a tough question to answer since Radar is such a social product. When I'm not working, I'm still using Radar, and consequently thinking about it all the time. And I'm lucky enough to work with some of my closest friends. There's very little separation between my work and personal life, but somehow it feels balanced in the long run.\" \u2022 What's the most important piece of software or web tool that you use each day? \"Other than Radar, I was glued to this iPhone app called Slate Poll Tracker for up-to-the-minute stats about the presidential election. Fingers crossed.\" \u2022 Name your closest competitors \"In the vast world of online photo sharing there are now three distinct categories: community sites focused on photography, of which Flickr is far and away the leader; social networking services featuring pictures of people at parties, and Facebook is the exemplar here; and the emergent Radar model of stream-of-consciousness mobile sharing. \"We're of course far smaller today than Flickr and Facebook, and while we each have our own focus, there's clearly some overlap in the venn diagram. That said, I use all three services every day, and find them complementary.\" \u2022 Where do you want the company to be in five years? \"In five years, we fully expect that people around the world will find picture-driven communication to be as natural as texting feels today (and didn't five years ago). We want to continue leading that trend, and delivering the best possible mobile experience to support it.\" radar.net So what do you think? \u2022 Are you convinced by the 'content as advertising' channels as a revenue stream? \u2022 Does visual messaging have the same mainstream potential as text messaging? \u2022 Do you think there's an inherent problem here with the size, data cost and quality of photos limiting the appeal of the service?",
  "title": "Elevator Pitch: Radar builds a visual conversation, like Flickr meets Twitter",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/startups",
    "technology/photography",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/flickr",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "San Francisco-based Tiny Pictures have built an userbase of more than one million people to their Radar service, a fusion of Flickr and Twitter",
  "id": "media/pda/2008/dec/08/startups-photography",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}