{
  "content": "This week, Hedda Gabler will die on Twitter. There will be no further Tweets from @Heddathruaglass where, over the last two years, Katherine Tozer has been tweeting every day in character charting Hedda's life, latterly on her extended honeymoon with her husband in Europe. Over the last few days, the daily tweet has brought Hedda closer and closer to home and the point where Ibsen's play begins. On 7 September she wrote: \"7th September 1891. Dora's bovine sister Bertha to be housekeeper. I'll need Dora to dress. George is mawkishly fond of Bertha. All's fair.\" Last Thursday's tweet would also have been revealing to those who know Ibsen's original play as Hedda complained: Tomorrow, Hedda will arrive home at last and the final few days of her life, the events covered in Ibsen's play, will start to unfold, but not on Twitter. The very final tweet will be a link to a film made by Don Boyd of Palimpsest's production of Hedda Gabler that had a run at Leighton House in London's Holland Park back in April 2014, with Tozer playing the title role. Those who want to delve further still into Hedda's universe can look online, where her world is lovely re-created. Hedda Gabler, in its different manifestations, is part of a growing number of projects that either extend the amount of time that an audience might spend in and around a production, or which offer a different point of access or entry into the experience. Some people started following the Twitter account and will watch the film after seeing the live staging; others will only have accessed the project online. The online material may be seen as a way of stretching the ticket price for those who did see the production and want to spend more time with Hedda, but the diary, the Twitter account and the film exist independently too. Tozer's ideas of creating online worlds that augment the experience of the play are part of a growing interest in theatre that uses social and digital media in new and interesting ways. This month Invisible Flock is exploring the boundaries of performance, installation and gaming with If You Go Away, an adventure that defies categorisation and that will be taking place in various locations across the country, starting in Leeds next Thursday. On the south coast at the ongoing Brighton Digital Festival, notions of storytelling and the lines between the live and the virtual are being explored in pieces such as Sensacional and Talking Posts in which the art of telling a good yarn gets a digital twist. The internet is clearly changing ideas around different art forms and how they are delivered and experienced \u2013 and where they are experienced \u2013 including pressing issues such as: how do you clap on Twitter? Last year in an excellent article on the Space, Tim Bano asked: \"Where does film end and theatre begin? What would be the criteria for online performance? Does it have to be live? Does it have to be happening somewhere that's not my bedroom? Is it only theatre if I've had to put on trousers and leave the house? Imposing criteria is useless, it suffocates imagination and it stifles one colossal strength of theatre: the potential for infinite variety.\" Which brings us to The International Archive of Things Left Unsaid, a new digital artwork by Rhiannon Armstrong , commissioned by Battersea Arts Centre (BAC) and the Space and which can be accessed here. It's exactly what it says it is: a curated collection of real life stories and confessions that have been donated by members of the public over the last nine years. It's been created using scratch, the process that over the last 15 years has been so crucial to the development of so much theatre in the UK, but which has also been applied by BAC in other situations including the redevelopment of its own building and the spaces within it and in helping young people develop their business ideas. In fact as David Jubb points out, coders use the process of scratch all the time when developing programmes and the trick of The International Archive of Things Left Unsaid was in bringing together artist and a coder in a genuinely fruitful collaboration that stretched both. The piece previously toured both the UK and internationally as a live one-on-one show, and one of the questions being asked of it is whether it can deliver the same impact and intimacy in digital form. I haven't seen the live version, but from my experience of the digital version, I'd say yes, but probably in a different way. Armstrong's archive looks beautiful in its online presentation but it is primarily an audio experience designed to be experienced while on your own. Just as in pieces such as David Rosenberg and Glen Neath's Fiction , delivered via headphones in the dark, there is something oddly intimate about having somebody whispering in your ears. I've now listened to several confessions in the archive and I've played with doing it in different places \u2013 at home at my desk, in a crowded cafe and on my own in the pitch dark \u2013 and the experience is definitely influenced by location as much as by content. The archive has been set up in a way that you can only access an entry every couple of days in an attempt to try and stop the kind of binge consumption associated with online sites such as Netflix, and also to create a different kind of approach to most online confessional material emphasising empathy rather than sensationalism. It is just the latest in a series of digital projects stretching the boundaries of theatre in new ways.",
  "title": "How digital culture is taking Hedda Gabler into infinity",
  "lead": "A new presentation of Ibsen's play Hedda Gabler has been preceded by tweets from its heroine \u2013 an example of how digital media draws in theatre audiences in ingenious ways",
  "tags": [
    "stage/theatre",
    "stage/stage",
    "culture/culture",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "stage/theatreblog/2015/sep/15/theatre-audience-digital-media-hedda-gabler",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}