{
  "content": "OK!'s dreams of selling 2 million extra copies of its Catherine Zeta Jones wedding special came to nothing because Hello! published unauthorised pictures of the event, OK!'s former editor claimed today. Martin Townsend struck a \u00a31m deal to the exclusive rights to the wedding pictures, which are now at the centre of a high court legal battle after Hello! mounted a classic spoiler operation. \"The Catherine Zeta Jones/Michael Douglas wedding was by far the biggest celebrity event I'd been involved with at OK! and probably the biggest celebrity event OK! will ever be involved with,\" Mr Townsend told the high court. OK! expected to sell 2 million extra copies of its wedding edition, which would have amounted to about \u00a36m in revenue. Mr Townsend was giving evidence on the fifth day of the joint law suit the Hollywood couple and OK! have taken out against Hello!. OK! is seeking \u00a31.75m in compensation for the commercial damage inflicted when its rival published what is known in the trade as a \"spoiler\" by rushing out an earlier edition of its magazine featuring six unauthorised pictures of the wedding. Yesterday Ms Zeta Jones told the court she felt \"violated\" by the pictures while her husband said the presence of an unknown paparazzo at the wedding reception felt like being watched by a \"peeping Tom\". Today the focus of the case switched to the alleged commercial damage suffered by OK! and Mr Townsend told the court that maintaining absolute exclusivity was paramount to the deal. \"We had planned a huge wedding issue at which point nobody would have seen a single image of Catherine Zeta Jones and Michael Douglas' wedding and we calculated an enormous sale on that exclusivity. It was like having a cork rammed into a bottle,\" he said. \"The whole question here is who will be first with the pictures and we planned to be first. \"Any pictures that appeared before that were going to have a huge impact on the exclusivity. The whole power of exclusivity is that something has not actually been seen.\" Mr Townsend pointed to the similarity of the wedding of David Beckham and Victoria Adams in July 1999. \"By releasing the pictures they wanted to release to OK! they were able to reduce the amount of media frenzy, particularly around the aftermath of their wedding,\" he said. He told the court that OK!, which held the exclusive rights to the Beckham wedding, underestimated the sales boost it would give to the magazine. Mr Douglas and Ms Zeta Jones told the court yesterday they had hand-picked two photographers to capture their wedding and had planned to select the photos they wanted to appear in OK!. However, Rupert Thorpe, a paparazzo and the son of former Liberal leader Jeremy Thorpe, sneaked into the wedding and took pictures with a camera hidden at hip level. James Price QC, Hello!'s counsel, put it to Mr Townsend that the Hello! issue containing the unauthorised shots sold only about 150,000 more copies than the magazine usually sells. It emerged in court today that paparazzi photographs snatched of Madonna's highly secretive wedding to Guy Ritchie were also offered to OK! Several photographers had hidden in the grounds of Skibo Castle in Scotland in what appeared a futile attempt to capture the singer's wedding two years ago. Until today it was widely considered no unofficial wedding pictures of Madonna and her husband existed. \"There was a series of photos of guests in the grounds, including Guy Ritchie playing with a dog and at least two pictures of Madonna through a window in the house. You could see an outline of Madonna and she appeared to be holding a child,\" Mr Townsend said. OK!'s former picture editor, Paul Anderson, who also took the stand today, said the magazine had turned down the Madonna wedding pictures because they had clearly been taken on private property. The pictures came through \"a usual source\", Mr Anderson added.",
  "title": "Hello! spoiler cost OK! dear",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "OK!'s hopes of selling 2m extra copies of its Catherine Zeta Jones wedding special came to nothing because Hello! published unauthorised pictures of the event, OK!'s former editor claimed today. By Ciar Byrne",
  "id": "media/2003/feb/11/pressandpublishing.privacy1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}