{
  "content": "In the eye of the Trevor Noah Twitterstorm this week, which saw the new host of Comedy Central's Daily Show shamed by some off-colour tweets excavated by the media, it was calculated that Noah had tweeted four times daily over the last five years. Among standups, he's not alone: few professions have taken to Twitter with the zeal of comedy. It's the perfect shop window for (some, but not all) comics, a place to test material, build an audience, establish a brand. Several comedians \u2013 Rob Delaney, star of the hit sitcom Catastrophe, is the standout example \u2013 have built their whole career on the platform. But there have been casualties too, of whom Noah is just the latest. Twitter was where Ricky Gervais's PC-baiting shtick started to grate too loudly: a 2011 row over his use of the word \"mong\" to describe people with Down's syndrome eventually forced the comedian into a grovelling climbdown. More often, standups raise hackles not by Gervais-level crassness, but by sacrificing propriety in their race to be funniest first when news breaks. In response to Robin Williams' suicide last year, the comic Richard Herring tweeted: \"as upsetting as this has been, I am wondering if God is finally handing out divine judgment for [Williams' ropey 1998 film] Patch Adams.\" Twitter responded disapprovingly; Herring protested right back (justifiably enough) at \"po-faced social media\". He also applied the comedians' defence, tweeting that \"I am a comedian [and] this is how we cope with bad news.\" The same line was taken by Noah's defenders this week, with comic Lucie Pohl on Comment is Free calling for \"a collective understanding that it's not serious and that we're all here to have a good time.\" I'm not sure I buy that argument. Yes, we need comedians as canaries in the mine, testing on our behalf what's funny and what's beyond the pale; what's palatable, what's not and why. When they're doing that, the \"hey, it's just a joke\" defence has traction. But that doesn't mean comedians can say whatever they please, whenever they like, funny or not, and take no responsibility for any of it. These questions are (usually) easier to navigate in a live comedy environment. There, the audience is self-selected, and the comic controls the context in which her joke is delivered. But Twitter is a context-free zone. It also has a potentially limitless audience. When you speak there, you're speaking for publication - and if you publish something, people will assume you're proud of it. Noah presumably wasn't bearing this in mind when tweetingthe offending \"jokes\". You may agree in principle with all the stout defences launched last week of his right to offend, his obligation to push boundaries, his right to be judged equally by his thousands of \"good\" tweets, and so on. But the tweets in question aren't boundary-pushing, they're bone-headed. Any self-respecting comedian, but particularly one chosen to assume Jon Stewart's considerable moral authority, would blush to have told them. And yet \u2013 are they bad enough to lose the man his job? Noah's promotion momentarily hung in the balance last week, and there are precedents that might have given him the jitters. The comic Gilbert Gottfried lost his 11-year advertising gig as the voice of the Aflac (American Family Life Assurance Company) duck after tweeting jokes about the Japanese tsunami in 2011. In the UK, Frankie Boyle - once a small-screen fixture - burnt his bridges with broadcasters after several on-air transgressions, and a barrage of too-near-the-knuckle Twitter missives. (A tweet about Team GB's Paralympic high jumper being \"Taliban assisted\" was reportedly the straw that broke Channel 4's back.) But usually comics ride out these teacup-sized Twitterstorms - or indeed their real-world equivalents. Jimmy Carr shrugged off protests about his notorious \"gypsy moth\" joke, not to mention his tax-dodging. Daniel Tosh continues to broadcast in the States, unbowed by the row that greeted his unpleasant response to a female heckler (\"Wouldn't it be funny if that girl got raped by, like, five guys right now?\"). Dapper Laughs retired himself from comedy live on Newsnight last November after accusations of sexism against his ITV2 show \u2013 then bounced back in December with the announcement of a new tour. Only occasionally will a comic's offensive material propel them beyond redemption. That was the case with Seinfeld star Michael Richards, whose N-word tirade against black hecklers in a Hollywood comedy club in 2006 ended his standup career. Richards described that incident as an \"insane flip-out\", a spontaneous attempt to be outrageous gone badly wrong. The same excuse can't be applied to a tweet. If you're on Twitter, you're probably not in the heat of the moment, and you have the option \u2013 an option which many excellent comics take \u2013 of not publishing lame or retrograde jokes in the first place.",
  "title": "Trevor Noah: should his Twitter 'jokes' cost him the Daily Show job?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/ustelevision",
    "media/television",
    "media/media",
    "culture/trevor-noah",
    "tv-and-radio/us-television",
    "culture/television",
    "tv-and-radio/tv-and-radio",
    "culture/culture",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Comedians such as Ricky Gervais have prompted outrage with their tweets \u2013 and now Jon Stewart's replacement is facing questions over his judgment",
  "id": "media/2015/apr/03/trevor-noah-twiter-jokes-daily-show-jon-stewart",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}