{
  "content": "From tomorrow, Twitter users will be able to make direct phone calls to each other for the first time. Well, at least if they live in the US. But Jajah.com, an internet telephony company, that allows you to make voice over IP calls using your landline or cell phone, might want to bring the service to the UK as fast as it can. Twitter is not only at its most successful in Europe here, but even more popular more than in the US. This is how it works: To make a call you send a tweet with \"@call @username\" in it, where the 'username' is the twitter name of the person you want to call. That will initiate a free two-minute call, which Jajah.com says is the equivalent of a tweet. The Twitter users need to follow each other and both be Jajah users as well, although their phone number won't be revealed. The announcement is the second this week to show a voice over IP company dipping a foot into the live stream of the social media sites. A few days earlier Vivox, a Boston-based company that provides already a large voice network for gamers and works with Second Life, revealed that it is developing a service for Facebook that will permit high-fidelity conversations with anyone on your Facebook friends list. Since the technology is not offered by Facebook itself, however, users will have to download an extra plug-in. According to the staff writer at CNET News Daniel Terdiman the service, once installed, works almost seamlessly on the site and is intended for one-to-one chat as well as for group discussions. Voice over IP companies reaching out to social networks is an interesting development. If if works, Skype might face serious competition, as might the mobile phone networks. It is still to be seen how they will react to these services, which are available smartphones as well as on the web. The iPhone, for example, forbids voice over IP calls using AT&amp;T's 3G network. To get around this, Jajah.com has only offered a web application for the iPhone for some time.",
  "title": "Internet phone companies call on Twitter and Facebook",
  "lead": "Voice over IP companies are working hard to make phone calls available on social platforms. By Mercedes Bunz",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/skype",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/pda/2009/sep/22/voice-over-ip-on-social-networks-jajah-facebook-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}