{
  "content": "The world has changed dramatically in the 13 years since the annual Safer Internet Day (SID) was launched. Thirteen years ago, YouTube didn't exist. Now more than half of children use the video sharing website every day, according to a recent report from Childwise. And children spend more time on the internet than they do watching TV. As we become more reliant on digital technology, keeping children safe online becomes ever more pressing. Today's SID \u2013 marked in more than 100 countries and organised in the UK by the UK Safer Internet Centre (UKSIC) \u2013 is an opportunity for everyone, from families to law enforcement and businesses to policymakers, to play their part for a better internet. High-profile supporters include the BBC, BT, Disney, Facebook, Google, Instagram, Microsoft, Nickelodeon, Twitter, Vodafone, and the UK government, as well as police services and schools. All are involved in delivering a range of activities. Microsoft, for example, is doing a SID takeover on its search engine Bing, and will serve specially created resources when anything internet safety related is searched. Snapchat has created a filter for SID that can be applied to photos taken using the app, while Vodafone is supporting with its special emoji keyboard, featuring a #SID2016 heart shaped emoji intended to be shared in solidarity against cyberbullying. The company is also working with YouTubers to create awareness raising videos and for each view, like and direct share a video receives, the Vodafone Foundation will donate \u00a31 up to a maximum of \u00a3100,000 to child rights charities. But it's not just the responsibility of big tech companies to ensure they are educating and supporting people in the safe and positive use of technology. Other businesses can also make a difference by through customers and staff. Football teams, for example. Premier League clubs Everton, Liverpool, Manchester United and Arsenal are hosting education sessions for hundreds of local schoolchildren, as well as getting players involved in promoting the safe and positive use of technology as part of their youth outreach programmes. Other organisations bring unparalleled reach on SID, with the Post Office playing SID safety messages through TV screens in its network of stores on the day and Nickelodeon creating anti-bullying videos for TV, its website and its YouTube channel. While the day provides a focus for raising awareness of internet safety issues and an opportunity for companies to create some good PR stories, many of these partnerships are continuous throughout the year. The UK Safer Internet Centre sits alongside representatives from corporates, NGO, government, and police on the executive board of the UK Council for Child Internet Safety, as well as being represented on safety councils for Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat, Ask.fm and more. Keeping children safe online is challenging \u2013 cyberbullying is increasing and young people are facing increasing pressures online that can have long-lasting impacts on their wellbeing. The ongoing threat from the proliferation of child sexual abuse images remains at the top of the agenda for many companies as they strive to use cutting-edge technical solutions to solve issues that can have huge consequences for the lives of some of the most vulnerable children both here in the UK and worldwide. The challenges are complex, and there's no magic bullet to create a better internet but if all organisations step up to the challenge and play their part, we can all make a big difference.",
  "title": "From Liverpool FC to Google: business joins in pledge to promote safer internet #SID2016",
  "lead": "From Premier League football clubs to search engines, organisations can leverage their reach to address digital safety challenges",
  "tags": [
    "sustainable-business/sustainable-business",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/snapchat",
    "environment/corporatesocialresponsibility",
    "business/business",
    "society/child-rights",
    "society/children",
    "society/society"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "sustainable-business/2016/feb/09/from-liverpool-fc-to-google-business-joins-safer-internet-day",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}