{
  "content": "The Obama re-election campaign will mark a political first on Thursday night when it opens the first ever office for technology volunteers. Located in San Francisco, the office is the latest effort in the campaign's bid to harness Silicon Valley's talent and to corral the region's billions into its presidential re-election machine. Northern California has become increasingly important to the Obama campaign. It is home to industry giants such as Apple, Google, Instagram and Twitter, and has outpaced Hollywood in terms of campaign donations, making it the fifth largest donor group this cycle, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. The campaign has been quick to capitalise on support from hi-tech superstars like Sean Parker, the founder of Napster, and Craig Newmark, who set up Craigslist. Its most recent high-profile outreach was the announcement in January of Technology for Obama, a network of key players including Parker and Newmark who have committed to boosting the campaign's coffers. The new office appears to be an attempt to seed bottom-up interest among San Francisco's hopeful talent. The Obama digital team has also been recruiting statisticians, predictive modellers, data mining experts, and software engineers from university job fairs, like Stanford's, since early last summer. The campaign may be banking on a new breed who are both technologically gifted and civic-minded. According to TechPresident, an industry observer, a younger generation is not just using its knowledge \"to start the next Facebook, they're building a cadre of Silicon Valley companies that work in public affairs \u2013 not just non-profits, government, and civic life, but politics and campaigns.\" The Obama campaign has relied on both volunteer support and technological prowess since its inception. In the 2008 presidential election, it shattered campaign fundraising records and attracted unprecedented attention by galvanizing online supporters who demonstrated their loyalty by designing posters and T-shirts, posting millions of personal statements, photos and videos. This time around, the campaign is focusing on free media of a different sort: code. According to the campaign's event listing for tonight's event, the new office is intended to act as \"a hub for technology and innovation \u2026 The Obama campaign's Tech Field Office will offer volunteers the opportunity to write code and support the campaign through tech innovations.\" Further details are so far unavailable, and the event is closed to press. The office will be co-directed by Catherine Bracy \u2013 who was a mobile product manager for the campaign \u2013 and a so-far unnamed engineer. Bracy comes with connections: she was previously the administrative director of Harvard's Berkman Center for Internet &amp; Society. It is one of the country's premier internet research centers and regularly hosts Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, CEOs and lawyers. The campaign's deputy chief technology office, Mike Conlow, tweeted that he will attend tonight's launch party. The ability to generate more code could make a real difference to the campaign's already massive digital team \u2013 in terms of building out BarackObama.com and speeding up mobile development, as the campaign spokesperson Katie Hogan told the San Francisco Chronicle. However, it will soon be too late to develop and test integral innovations that could scale to the campaign's massive size. Experienced campaign hands point out that a campaign's technology infrastructure is relatively set by this time in the election cycle, and that new tools or approaches rarely get developed any later than mid-summer \u2013 and are usually in the works by now. The campaign does not necessarily need thousands of techies to call its new initiative a success \u2013 just one or two great ideas could turbo charge the Obama campaign's already well-fueled machine, as was the case with the 2008 election. Dan Siroker was in the audience when Obama addressed Google's employees in 2007, and he took to heart the call to action. He moved to Chicago in December 2007 and devised a robust analytics approach for BarackObama.com which he claims raised an additional $100m.",
  "title": "Obama campaign to break ground with tech volunteer office in San Francisco",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "us-news/us-elections-2012",
    "us-news/barack-obama",
    "us-news/us-politics",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "business/technology",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/startups",
    "world/world",
    "us-news/san-francisco",
    "technology/silicon-valley"
  ],
  "lead": "First-of-a-kind office in Silicon Valley is part of digital strategy to harness technologically gifted and civic-minded new breed",
  "id": "world/2012/mar/22/obama-campaign-san-francisco-office",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}