{
  "content": "Let's not get too excited. The judge's lifting of the superinjunction that had prevented the media from exposing John Terry's alleged affair has been greeted with enthusiastic predictions that the law on privacy, saviour of many misbehaving celebrities, had suffered a significant defeat at the hands of freedom of the press. Newspapers would in future be legally entitled to lay bare the adulterous liaisons and naughty antics of the famous. The mighty superinjunction, scourge of the public's right to know, had been dealt a body blow. Not so fast. Certainly, Mr Justice Tugendhat's judgment showed an interpretation of the law that might make it more difficult for footballers to keep their flings a secret. But he was not laying down new principles, and anyway the Terry case included unusual elements that were important in making up the judge's mind. Reading his detailed reasons for refusing Terry an injunction, I got the impression that, had those elements not been present, Tugendhat might have allowed the England captain the secrecy he wanted. I won't go into the procedural details, but the judge was critical of the way Terry's evidence had been presented in court, and of other procedural shortcomings. He also came to the conclusion that Terry was more concerned about what the negative publicity would do to his sponsorship deals and business opportunities than to the privacy of his family. On the whole, though, celebrities \u2013 especially those with families \u2013 who go to court to try to stop newspapers revealing their sexual shenanigans will still have a good chance of being granted injunctions on the grounds that their privacy has been invaded \u2013 unless, of course, public interest is at stake or that his or her identity is already widely known. Perhaps, post-Tugendhat, judges will not grant injunctions quite so readily, but there will be no revolution. And predictions of the demise of the superinjunction have been greatly exaggerated.",
  "title": "John Terry gagging order defeat does not mean the end of superinjunctions",
  "lead": "Marcel Berlins: Celebrities who try to stop newspapers revealing their affairs still have a chance of getting injunctions on privacy grounds",
  "tags": [
    "sport/sport",
    "football/football",
    "football/john-terry",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "law/superinjunctions"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2010/jan/31/john-terry-superinjunction",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}