{
  "content": "Following the latest claims about what goes on inside Beckingham Palace, the celebrity couple have announced they are instigating legal proceedings against their former nanny, Abbie Gibson, and the News of the World for providing us with her story. David and Victoria Beckham are to sue Gibson for breach of confidence, while the News of the World is to be pursued for aggravated damages. Given that the story is out it may all seem a bit late in the day. Gibson may have been paid well but it is not going to be worth suing her other than to stop her spilling more of the beans. The Beckhams were already suing the News of the World for libel over an earlier article claiming their marriage was \"on the rocks\". So they have decided to throw their assorted claims into one pot and try to persuade the courts that the paper should pay up. The celebrity couple do not need the money but, in asking the courts to punish the paper, are hoping to secure some vindication that they have not been feeding their public porky pies about the state of their marriage. With Lord Hutton in retirement, they may face an uphill battle in convincing the courts that an assortment of employees and the mischievous media have been feeding us lies. Following their thwarted attempt to gag the News of the World, the Beckhams are finding there's no place to hide when the public has so much interest in them. Well, that's according to Mr Justice Langley, who was satisfied that the public should not be prevented from hearing what Gibson had to say. Persuading a judge that the public has an interest in a story goes beyond merely showing that the public may be interested in it. The courts have to balance the competing interests of freedom of expression and the right to a private and family life. However, the Human Rights Act 1998 recognises the importance of the free speech and safeguards against prior restraint by directing the court to regard the role of the media. Section 12, in particular, states that when it comes to gagging the press \"no such relief is to be granted... unless the court is satisfied that the applicant is likely to establish that publication should not be allowed\". In other words, Mr Justice Langley must have been persuaded that if it went to trial, the Beckhams' claim that publication should not be allowed was not sufficiently strong to suggest that they would win. This may seem strange to those who think that the information Gibson and the News of the World made public clearly breached confidentiality. But one has to look at the public interest attached to that confidentiality. Here, too, section 12(4) of the Human Rights Act directs the court to assess this with reference to the \"relevant code\". The relevant code in this case is the Press Complaints Commission code and, when it comes to the public interest, it sets out that this includes \"preventing the public from being misled by some statement or action of an individual or organisation\". So while Mr Justice Langley's order could still be overturned on appeal, he was persuaded that, on the evidence before him, publication was in the public interest to prevent the Beckhams from misleading the public about their private life. So for publicity-hungry celebrities, the message is clear: when you put your private life into the public domain, that same private life becomes the subject of legitimate public interest, irrespective of whether confidences or privacy have been breached. Murderer Ian Huntley has secured more privacy in his prison cell than Posh gets in her kitchen. In drawing up their battle plan, the Beckhams' lawyers and publicists have their work cut out. Nannygate may have started out as a further action against Gibson and the News of the World but it has now become entangled with the pending defamation action against the same paper. Given the latest publication, it makes sense to seek to bundle the causes of action. Much of what Gibson revealed could be turned around to provide evidence that would have undermined the Beckhams' original claim against the paper for defamation. In deciding to publish Gibson's account of the Beckhams' marital relations, the News of the World has not just provided itself and the wider press with several pages of salacious copy but has put into the public domain evidence that could well justify its assertion that Posh and Becks' marriage was \"on the rocks\". To this extent, the publication may well have been in contempt of the original defamation proceedings. If what the nanny says is true, allegations of the footballer's romps with beautician Danielle Heath and sex-texts to former PA Rebecca Loos may be more fact than fantasy. Would this not amount to evidence or give grounds for a marriage being in crisis? So it may be that the News of the World printed the justification for its earlier story and, as far as Mr Justice Langley was concerned, this was in the public interest. The Beckhams are preparing to sue Gibson and punish the paper but they may do better to walk away from the impending legal wrangle. The story is out and the real question is not how much damage it may have done but how much damage their legal action could do. The curse of being a celebrity is that when you graduate from modest chanteuse or footballer to lifestyle brand, your kingmaker can just as soon turn out to be your executioner. No matter how much money you have, it won't buy you immunity from the double-edged sword of the media. How far the courts are prepared to go to protect celebrities who behave badly or fall out of favour is still up for debate. The more you set yourself up as a role model, the more likely it is that evidence dispelling such a myth will be allowed to prevail. Footballer Gary Flitcroft's gag on the press was lifted for this reason. In relation to protecting confidentiality in contracts, cases such as those involving Lady Archer and her PA or Naomi Campbell and Vanessa Frisbee show the courts are willing to allow confidentiality to prevail. Last year the House of Lords sided with Campbell who, in spite of being \"a lying, drug-taking celebrity\", deserved privacy for some of the more personal aspects of her private life. So the question for Beckhams' lawyers is whether it is worth pinning their hopes on a bundled claim for aggravated damages. This will test the truth of the tales we have so far been told. In the final analysis it may come down to whether the News of the World was responsible for misinforming its readers, or whether the paper has highlighted others' untruths in the allegations it has exposed. There seems to be little doubt that Gibson's contract and role as the Beckhams' nanny came with some hefty confidentiality clauses. So the basis for an action along such lines might have seemed clear - telling what went on in Beckingham Palace would certainly involve revealing matters considered private. But this is where the couple's celebrity status may undermine their cause. In refusing to grant the Beckhams their injunction, Mr Justice Langley determined that the confidence attached to Gibson's contract and status within the Beckham household could be trumped by the public interest in not being misled by the image of a fairytale lifestyle the Beckhams sought to promote. Whether their claims against Gibson and the News of the World will prove more successful than their bid to gag them remains to be seen. Celebrities who string their public along are prone to come a cropper. At half time, the Beckhams appear to be 1:0 down but as the Campbell case demonstrated, you can never second guess the referee. \u00b7 Edgar Forbes is a senior lecturer in media law at Bournemouth Media School",
  "title": "The Beckhams have nowhere to hide",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Murderer Ian Huntley has secured more privacy in his prison cell than the publicity-hungry Beckhams now have in their own home, writes Edgar Forbes",
  "id": "media/2005/apr/27/pressandpublishing.marketingandpr",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}