{
  "content": "Warnings from every major media company that the government's new data retention laws risk the proper functioning of a free press have not persuaded the Coalition and Labor to recommend changes in a committee report to be released on Friday. It is understood the joint committee on intelligence and security has not agreed to any of the changes proposed by multiple media organisations \u2013 that journalists be exempted from the new laws, or that a warrant be required if an organisation is seeking the metadata of journalists and their sources, or - as a final fallback proposition - that \"only the most senior officials of an authorised agency\" be allowed to approve access to the metadata of journalists and their sources. Instead, the committee is understood to be proposing some kind of process to further consider the issue, after the Telecommunications (Interception and Access) Amendment (Data Retention) Bill 2014 has passed the parliament. The laws require companies to keep for two years metadata information, some of which many are keeping for some period of time already. It allows two years for the new retention time requirements to be phased in. But Tony Abbott has demanded they be passed by 19 March and has said that not doing so would be like \"unilateral disarmament in the face of criminals\". In January the prime minister wrote to the opposition leader, Bill Shorten, a letter which was leaked to the Australian, and demanded rapid passage of the laws. Shorten's angry response accused Abbott of politicising the subject, ignoring legitimate concerns and possibly jeopardising bipartisanship. In Abbott's letter, sent on 22 January, he said the Lindt cafe siege and the Charlie Hebdo shootings in Paris \"underscored the urgency\" of the new laws and warned intelligence agencies were \"going blind\" because telecommunications companies were keeping data for shorter times. In his reply, dated 9 February and also given to the media, Shorten wrote: \"I am disappointed that recent media briefing has sought to politicise the development and consideration of anti-terrorism legislation \u2026 This is at odds with a responsible and bipartisan approach to such important issues.\" The exchanges prompted a private warning from the attorney general, George Brandis, in federal cabinet that politicising the debate over the Coalition's controversial metadata legislation was \"playing with fire\" because the government needed Labor's support to pass it. After the exchange of letters, and the warning from Brandis, the minister responsible for negotiating the legislation's passage, Abbott enlisted the support of the child protection campaigner and Bravehearts founder Hetty Johnston for the passage of the legislation because of metadata's role in tracking perpetrators of child abuse. The range of possible options to ameliorate the effect of the laws on the activities of journalists was put to the committee by organisations including News Corporation, Fairfax Media, the West Australian, SBS, AAP and APN News and Media. \"Our central concern, as articulated in our previous submission, is that the collection and storage of metadata could be accessed to identify journalists' sources, making it less likely that sources will share information (including corroborating information) and therefore have a chilling effect on reporting in the public interest. We therefore believe that there must be strict limits on the purpose for which metadata is accessed, restrictions on the agencies that can access this data, prohibitions on the data being used to identify journalists and sources, and increasingly robust authorisation process for accessing the data,\" the media organisations wrote. In its submission, Guardian Australia proposed the creation of an independent public interest monitor to test the arguments of agencies that seek to conduct surveillance and articulate the privacy and interests which ought to be weighed by the decision-maker. The journalists' union, the Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance (MEAA), also called for journalists to be exempt, saying the government's proposal threatened the functioning of a free press. \"The legislation in its current form will prevent the media proper fulfilling its role in properly scrutinising the government and others in power, to the extent that it would be impossible for a free press to continue to operate in Australia,\" the union said. \"At the very least there needs to be with this legislation \u2026 a clear exemption and exclusion of the media and the operations of the media from these laws.\"",
  "title": "Media companies' metadata warnings go unheeded by intelligence committee",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "australia-news/australian-politics",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "australia-news/australia-news",
    "australia-news/coalition",
    "australia-news/labor-party"
  ],
  "lead": "It is understood the joint committee on intelligence and security is not agreeing to any of the changes proposed to protect journalists' sources",
  "id": "australia-news/2015/feb/26/media-companies-metadata-warnings-go-unheeded-by-intelligence-committee",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}