{
  "content": "As much as Paul Dacre might wish to gripe about the single-handed rewriting of UK privacy laws by High Court judge Mr Justice Eady, it is becoming clear that the well of sympathy for the tabloid press does not run that deep. Dacre argues that it is wholly inappropriate for an unelected judge to flex his creative muscle in areas that have profound implications for the freedom of the press, but given that the stock in trade of the Daily Mail and other tabloids is the reporting of affairs that bear little relation to any notion of public interest, those protestations ring somewhat hollow. Is the editor-in-chief of a national newspaper simply the wrong person to carry the torch for freedom of speech issues? Dacre's arguments would have far greater credibility coming from the mouth of a constitutional lawyer with no vested interest. Surely the protection of privacy is something that we expect our elected representatives to fight for on our behalf? Where does New Labour stand on this issue? It is naive in the extreme to imagine that a political party would ever legislate to curb the ability of the popular press to peddle its daily menu of cheap salacious gossip and financially-motivated kiss-and-tell stories. The issue goes beyond conventional journalism into the murky hinterland of publications that rely on cellulite and ill-advised bikinis to sell their weekly glossies. It is an industry, and in times of economic downturn our industries become precious sources of buoyancy, not to mention the fact that many voters look forward to their weekly fixes of inconsequential fluff and nonsense. You might as well legislate against Christmas or Coronation Street. And what exactly would fill the gaping void left if we snipped out everything that the public didn't desperately need to know? It is arguable that the only thing that stops the tabloids being more proactive in their pursuit of political scandal is the fact that Big Brother contestants are so much more interesting than MPs. So let us discount the opinions of Dacre and his tabloid allies, and pursue the argument along the lines of basic constitutional principles. The Human Rights Act was conceived to enshrine certain fundamental rights of the individual in his or her dealings with the state. In areas of privacy - so the theory goes - the private citizen has certain rights that will protect them against unwarranted intrusion by public authorities. However, one of the idiosyncracies of the definition of \"public authority\" is that it includes the courts themselves. Irrespective of whether the effect was inadvertent or deliberate on the part of the government, what is clear is that in civil cases between two private parties, the courts must now give effect to the right of privacy without any direct involvement of the state. This is called the \"horizontal effect\" and is what allows a private individual such as Max Mosley to sue a private organisation such as a national newspaper on human rights grounds. The situation we now find ourselves in, 10 years after the Human Rights Act became law, is that once again we have a private action of benefit only to those that can afford to pursue it, not dissimilar to an action for libel or slander. If a particular right is only accessible to the rich and famous, then is it a right at all? The right to life or the freedom from torture are not rights that depend upon the relative wealth of the claimants, so it is worth considering whether the right to privacy that is being established by Eady has any kind of universality worthy of the name. The tabloids can print any amount of titillating rubbish about the average member of the public, but unless they earn celebrity wages there isn't a damn thing they will be able to do about it. Is this what we are celebrating when we see the likes of Dacre laud his precious freedom of the press? Eady is a one-man legislative machine, albeit one who has until now enjoyed the full backing of his superiors in the higher courts of appeal. Given that he attained his post under the old system of judicial nepotism - otherwise known as \"secret soundings\" - is he really best placed to create whole rafts of constitutional principle without any reference to parliamentary will? If any more evidence of the one-sided, establishment-friendly nature of this new-fangled privacy principle were needed, then it is worth spending some time becoming acquainted with the following case. A still-unnamed sportsman had an affair with another man's wife. When the cuckolded husband found out and decided to try to sell the story of his ruined life to the papers, the sportsman (with the full-backing of a reassuringly expensive legal counsel) sought an injunction against the husband on the basis that the resultant media scandal would be a gross invasion of his family's right to a private life. He succeeded, and it doesn't take a barrister to guess who was the presiding judge. Clearly the freedom of speech loses out to the right of sportsmen to pay for their privacy by any means necessary.",
  "title": "Geoff Cahill: Beyond Eady",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/pauldacre",
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Geoff Cahill: We once again have a privacy law of benefit only to those that can afford to pursue it",
  "id": "media/2008/nov/13/paul-dacre-privacy-laws",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}