{
  "content": "As violence returned to Cairo's Tahrir square last autumn, social media were once again the forum for every side to rally support and lay out their version of events. Twitter, YouTube and Facebook are the weapons of choice in the war to win hearts and minds. But it can be a bewildering tide of data for even the most perceptive and experienced observers. Thickets of text and images ensnare the unwary and lead to instant challenge in a region not short of ideological divides. The difficulties of interpreting this mass of information were thrown into sharp relief by complaints following a comment article published in the Guardian on 10 December 2012. Ahdaf Soueif is an Egyptian short story writer, novelist and political and occasional Guardian commentator. In the wake of the violence she was critical of Egypt's President Mohamed Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood. She wrote: \"It was expected that hundreds of thousands would protest. What was not expected was that they would be attacked by gangs of militia-style Muslim Brothers armed with sticks, knives and guns. Or that the leadership of the Brotherhood would declare: our (Brotherhood) dead are in heaven, their (protester) dead are in hell. That the supreme guide would claim, on TV, that the bandaged young man in a poster behind him was a slain Muslim Brother when he was, in fact, Ahmad Feisal, an injured protester. Or that the Brotherhood would have groups in the morgue trying to appropriate the bodies of the murdered and give them Brotherhood funerals \u2013 as in the testimony of victim Muhammad al-Senussi's brother \u2026 And what about Karam Guirguis, an Egyptian Copt?\" Her final paragraph referred to a video that allegedly connected \"a huge bearded man pushing his hand against the mouth of a woman protester\" with President Morsi. She wrote: \"You'll find the same man in a formal photograph in a semicircle gathered around the president.\" There were two substantial complaints about the six incidents referred to in the article, four of which were linked to YouTube film. The complainants not only challenged the interpretation of the YouTube videos but suggested that later evidence available on the web and in the Arab press had either successfully debunked the early version of events or put a question mark over them. I regret the time it took to investigate these complaints but the wealth of material \u2013 much of it in Arabic, which had to be independently translated \u2013 was in itself part of the problem. I found in favour of two of the complaints. On 24 January 2013 we published this correction: \"A comment article about the clashes between groups of protesters in Egypt in November and December referred to a series of specific violent incidents, the details of which are disputed. In relation to one, the article incorrectly said it was not expected that: \"The leadership of the [Muslim] Brotherhood would declare: our (Brotherhood) dead are in heaven, their (protester) dead are in hell.\" In fact the comments were not made by a Brotherhood speaker but by a Salafi scholar, speaking on a joint platform with the Brotherhood. Later in the article the author, Ahdaf Soueif, states: \"A video camera captures a huge bearded man pushing his hand against the mouth of a woman protester, Shahinda Meqled, a loved veteran of protest. You'll find this same man in a formal photograph in a semicircle gathered around the president.\" This is wrong. These are two different men, as Ms Soueif now accepts.\" In addition the amended article links to a comment in the thread by Yusra Ghannouchi, one of the complainants, which addressed the burden of the rest. Throughout, the more than 50 email exchanges between Soueif, the complainants and me were constructive. As the Egyptians say, the revolution continues; social media appears to be at least as powerful as a tank regiment for all groups, and a lot faster and more manoeuvrable. The Egyptian president, like his army, has a Facebook page on which he announces major changes in policy, such as his decision to rescind a plan for higher taxes in a 2am post. George Osborne, take note. But the danger for journalists covering events is social media's ability to distort as well as reflect.",
  "title": "The readers' editor on\u2026 interpreting social media reports from\u00a0Egypt",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/war-reporting",
    "world/egypt",
    "media/theguardian",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "world/middleeast",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Chris Elliott: Open door: Twitter, Facebook and YouTube have been widely used by opposing sides in Egypt but such data can easily distort as well as reflect",
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/feb/24/social-media-reports-egypt-middle-east",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}