{
  "content": "The outcome of the Zeta-Jones/Douglas case is nothing short of a legal, financial and commercial disaster for Hello! magazine. Legal costs alone must now be in the millions, the majority of which Hello! will probably be required to pay. And that is in addition to what is likely to be a substantial award of damages in favour of each of the three claimants. The wedding of Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta-Jones took place in 2000 in a New York hotel amid considerable security. The Douglases, realising that the demand for photographs of the ceremony would greatly increase if no authorised ones were available, allowed OK! to publish selected pictures. Hello!, OK!'s main rival, was clearly in the market for photographs of the wedding. A paparazzo managed to penetrate the wedding and secretly photograph the bride and groom. These shots were then sold to Hello!. An injunction was initially granted by the English high court prohibiting Hello! from publishing the photographs but, on the basis of false evidence (as the trial judge found) given by Hello!, the injunction was discharged, with the consequence that Hello! was able to publish the photographs. In the light of the court's judgment on Friday, it would have been better for the magazine if the injunction had never been lifted. Deprived of an injunction preventing publication of the photographs, the claimants' only remedy was to proceed to trial to obtain damages. This case, as with others before it, exposes as a myth the proposition that people, such as actors, whose professions require them to court publicity cannot prevent unwanted publicity about their private life. I for one have never seen unauthorised wedding photos of any newspaper editor and his or her spouse, nor photographs of them in a Jacuzzi on their honeymoon (and I hope I never do). The court, in balancing the rights of the individual (confidentiality of the wedding photos) with the public's right to know and freedom of expression, has come down firmly in favour of the individual. Legal arguments about whether a new privacy right has been created by this case are largely semantic. Nowadays it can be said that, as a result of the development of the law of confidence (in this case, the information contained in the wedding photographs), the claim for breach of confidential information has effectively meta-morphosed into a right of privacy. Importantly, not just for celebrities but for anyone in the public eye, the court has reinterpreted the press complaints commission's code of practice in a much more restrictive way than had previously been the case. The code already outlawed the use of long-lens photography unless it was deemed to be in the public interest. In a piece of impeccable logic, the trial judge has extended this to surreptitious short-range photography. Generally speaking, a breach of the PCC code will indicate a breach of the law of confidence in this area unless there are countervailing public-interest considerations. The perceived efficiency of the self-regulation of the press is an obstacle to privacy legislation. Under the present system, rights of privacy are established incrementally on a case-by-case basis by the courts. The judge presiding over the Hello! trial, however, duly warned that if Parliament did not introduce a law of privacy, judges might have to. Leaving aside the political will of any government to ruffle the feathers of media barons by introducing privacy legislation, it is debatable whether there are any significant areas of privacy left that require it, given the versatility of the breach-of-confidence action. In a recent speech to the Bentham Club at UCL, master of the rolls Lord Phillips recognised that his judgment in the court of appeal in the Naomi Campbell case (upholding the Mirror's appeal against her successful verdict) had been criticised by some as \"overconservative\". Certainly, and particularly in light of the Douglas decision, the court of appeal's ruling here appears out of kilter with the developing trends, both in England and in continental Europe. The House of Lords will soon have the opportunity finally to decide whether publication of long-lens photographs of a person leaving Narcotics Anonymous and details of their therapy is unlawful. The Douglases' decision to bring their case to trial has resulted in unjustified criticism and misreporting by the press (Friday's front page of the London Evening Standard announced: \"Zeta-Jones loses wedding privacy fight\"). It was therefore a brave decision motivated by principle and not financial or publicity considerations, of which they had no need. The case has not created a new right of privacy, but that was never necessary for the Douglases to win their case. It has however boosted the existing rights of confidentiality to the extent that it will no longer be possible for the tabloidsto regard this as a \"grey\" area. Additionally, it will put pressure on the PCC to interpret its own rules more strictly and enforce them more readily if it is not to be bypassed by claims in the courts. This was a case the Douglases were always going to win. The only real mystery is what possessed Hello! to fight it. This is a landmark case, not so much for the legal principles that it restates, but because of the clear willingness of the courts to come down on the side of privacy where the existing laws of confidence are inadequate. Keith Schilling is acting for Naomi Campbell in her privacy claim against the Mirror and has represented Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta-Jones in a matter unrelated to this case",
  "title": "Private lessons",
  "lead": "Lawyer Keith Schilling weighs up the consequences of Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta Jones's victory over Hello!.",
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "film/michael-douglas",
    "law/keith-schilling"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/apr/14/mondaymediasection.privacy1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}