{
  "content": "Lenovo, the world's largest PC manufacturer, has apologised for installing malware on consumer laptops, and attempted to issue instructions on how to fix a flaw that fatally compromised user security. The company was forced to issue a second set of instructions after security experts said that following its first set would do nothing to patch up the security holes the adware a created. But even the second set is \"incomplete\", according to researchers, and leaves users of the popular Firefox browser vulnerable. Lenovo said that between September and December last year its consumer laptops were shipped with an adware programme called Superfish. But rather than apologise, the company initially said that the software was included in the laptops \"to enhance the experience for users\". Hours later, the company altered its statement to remove that claim, and to \"apologize for causing any concern to any users for any reason\". The software bombarded affected users with pop-up adverts and injected more ads into Google searches. Security experts say it also left a gaping security hole on every computer, in the form of a self-signed root certificate. That certificate was used by the software to inject adverts even into encrypted websites, but its presence has the side-effect of making affected Lenovo computers trivially easy to hack with a \"man in the middle\" (MITM) attack, in which a hacker uses the certificate to pretend to be a trusted website, such as a bank or e-commerce site. The \"man in the middle\" can then steal information passed over the internet, even while the user believes they are safely browsing with encryption turned on. Initially, Lenovo offered users removal instructions for the Superfish software, telling them to remove it using Windows' own uninstall feature. But the company followed the advice with an odd admission: \"Superfish will be removed from Program Files and Program Data directories, files in user directory will stay intact for the privacy reason. Registry entry and root certificate will remain as well.\" Lenovo's initial statement did not detail what \"the privacy reason\" was, and the company did not reply to requests for clarification. Instead, it updated its statement to link to more complete removal instructions. But the instructions still fail to remove the bad certificate from the Firefox browser, if a user has that installed. Coder Filippo Valsorda, who created the Badfish tool for determining if a computer is affected by the software, has offered instructions for how to remove it from that browser as well. 'Thoroughly investigated' Despite admitting that the Superfish software installs a root certificate on affected computers, and that a simple uninstall will not remove the root certificate, Lenovo's statement initially said that \"we have thoroughly investigated this technology and do not find any evidence to substantiate security concerns\". The company did not respond to a request for clarification, but again updated the statement hours later to link to a security advisory warning users of a highly severe vulnerability. Superfish, the company which makes the software, continues to insist that \"at no time were consumers vulnerable\", according to the Wall Street Journal. The company has not responded to the Guardian's request for comment. While Lenovo initally said it did not believe there is evidence to \"substantiate\" security concerns, independent researchers disagreed. The Electronic Frontier Foundation said: \"Lenovo has not just injected ads in a wildly inappropriate manner, but engineered a massive security catastrophe for its users. The use of a single certificate for all of the MITM attacks means that all HTTPS security for at least Internet Explorer, Chrome, and Safari for Windows, on all of these Lenovo laptops, is now broken.\" It points out that the information required to perform such an attack has already been extracted from an infected machine. Wim Remes of security firm Rapid7 says: \"That a big vendor like Lenovo lends itself to this kind of practice is a big disappointment. We can not expect each individual user to be able to verify which systems are trusted or not. Everybody in the supply chain has a responsibility that can not be denied. \"Vendors of consumer hardware, having a vested interest in a secure internet, should hold themselves to a high standard. The security of their users should always prevail over the commercial benefit of adding 3rd party software to systems.\" Superfish was founded in 2006, and has also produced adware for Macs called Window Shopper, although that technology does not apparently introduce the same security holes as the Lenovo-installed software. Affected machines According to Lenovo, the affected models are as follows: G Series: G410, G510, G710, G40-70, G50-70, G40-30, G50-30, G40-45, G50-45 U Series: U330P, U430P, U330Touch, U430Touch, U530Touch Y Series: Y430P, Y40-70, Y50-70 Z Series: Z40-75, Z50-75, Z40-70, Z50-70 S Series: S310, S410, S40-70, S415, S415Touch, S20-30, S20-30Touch Flex Series: Flex2 14D, Flex2 15D, Flex2 14, Flex2 15, Flex2 14(BTM), Flex2 15(BTM), Flex 10 MIIX Series: MIIX2-8, MIIX2-10, MIIX2-11 YOGA Series: YOGA2Pro-13, YOGA2-13, YOGA2-11BTM, YOGA2-11HSW E Series: E10-30",
  "title": "Lenovo apologises for security-busting adware, offers 'incomplete' removal instructions",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/hacking"
  ],
  "lead": "The company said it only wanted to \"enhance\" user experience, and offered instructions to remove the adware \u2013 but not to completely fix the security hole.",
  "id": "technology/2015/feb/20/lenovo-apologises-adware-removal-instructions",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}