{
  "content": "Why are you on Facebook? It was a legitimate question from a colleague who isn't on Facebook \u2013 her and 77% of MPs, according to today's report from the Hansard Society. There are a number of reasons why I'm on Facebook. I have \"digital\" in my title, so to be missing from one of the world's best-known digital directories would look odd. It is a good way for me to monitor the activities of my eldest child while it destroys his brain. It sometimes helps me track down people I want to talk to and lets them track me down. What I'm more perplexed about is why my MP hasn't got a page on Facebook. It might seem unfair to pick on Diane Abbott, but she is my local MP and if I want to contact her I can do it, but just not through the most popular social networking site in the UK. Her homepage is not bad, but I'm envious of my colleague who can ask her MP, Tom Brakes, to look into matters of irritation at Carshalton station. He does it, and registers that he has on his Facebook status. She feels she has a personal relationship with her MP, something a thousand doorstepping exercises would never achieve. Most MPs, it seems, do not actually want connectivity with their electorate, they want, as the Hansard Society points out, to publish to an audience without engaging with it. As journalists we have occasionally had sympathy with this point of view \u2013 publishing to your readers from whom you derive your authority \u2013 is wonderful. Hearing back from them is sometimes less lovely, often difficult and a distraction to other work. But when we lose sight of the fact that we are only there because of how we represent, interpret and communicate, we rapidly become irrelevant. One could argue that a collective misjudgment about what it means to shift from an age of representation to an age of participation is what has pushed both the mass media and politics to the brink of crisis. In the media we are having to change more quickly because the business model is bust, and livelihoods are disappearing on a daily basis. But there is at the moment no alternative to our electoral system and therefore the pressure for MPs to reform personal behaviour is pretty much minimal. Social networking sites, Twitter, blogs, even good old email (which 10% of MPs don't use) are all just channels that if used correctly can help keep you connected to a particular constituency, help people find you and help you demonstrate what you do on a day to day basis. If as an MP you don't have time for any of the above, then you are either sitting on a large majority or you are looking forward to spending more time with your family.",
  "title": "Emily Bell: MPs are avoiding useful channels of communication such as Facebook",
  "lead": "Emily Bell: Most MPs don't seem to want connectivity with their electorate, avoiding useful channels such as Facebook, or even email",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/e-government",
    "technology/politics",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/blogging",
    "politics/politics",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/feb/25/internet-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}