{
  "content": "Last week, an online photo gallery I put together for a Canadian newspaper website surprisingly went viral. Called \"Celebrity Photos of the Week\", it is a weekly collection of pictures of A-list movie and television stars and their lesser B-list brethren standing awkwardly on the red carpets of film premieres, parties and other such vanities around the world. In spite of its inherent banality, and because my editors let me relieve my dyspepsia by writing snarky captions, it is regularly one of the more popular destinations on the Globe and Mail website. Last week, though, the traffic suddenly jumped twentyfold. I'd written into the gallery a few references to the Occupy Wall Street protest in Manhattan after being struck by the off-putting contrast between the values of that nascent movement and the oblivious celebrity ostentation I was seeing as I selected images. The OWS references caught people's eye and they started passing the link around on social media and blogs until it became healthy enough to mutate on its own and infect places as far away as Australia. Now, the Globe and Mail is a serious newspaper. It has first-class correspondents in the US, Europe, Africa, Russia and Asia, excellent and comprehensive news and political reporting on the domestic front and is Canada's leader in financial reporting. So a lot of people who found the gallery in their Twitter feed assumed the obvious: that this uncharacteristically unserious Globe content was the work of a hacker. Or, conversely, as the Telegraph assumed entirely on its own, that it was the work of an editor that had gone rogue and taken a stand against his or her newspaper's celebrity coverage. These assumptions were compounded by the fact that I am anonymous and known only as Caption Writing Person. The anonymity is just part of the joke, but in its virulent form it caused conspiracies to break out. Needless to say, we weren't hacked and I wasn't doing anything my superiors weren't aware of and didn't support. We were just having fun, and now suddenly I am a mysterious, internationally recognised, photo-caption wizard. Until the inevitable post-viral backlash, of course, when I'm found out to be not nearly as funny as I never actually said I was. (This week's completely disappointing gallery can be found here.) Speaking for the moment as an internet-accredited \"comic genius\", let me say this: photo captions have a language of their own that is ripe for satire. Captions state the obvious in hyper-literal terms (\"Film actor George Clooney waves to the crowd from the red carpet as he arrives at the premiere of the movie The Ides of March \u2026\") and then clumsily add a place and date (\"\u2026 at the Palace Theatre in New York City on Friday\"). Samuel Beckett could have written an entire play just using newspaper photo captions. The more tragic the photo, the more darkly humorous it becomes. The words \"A Buddhist monk is engulfed in flames after setting himself on fire to protest against his government's policies\" are inherently ludicrous when contrasted with the full meaning and impact of such a photograph. You might as well write: \"A Buddhist monk, having lit himself on fire, suddenly remembers that he forgot to turn off the oven before leaving home that morning.\" That would be stupid and wrong, of course, but no less meaningless. Let's work with another example. When I come across a picture of the infamous public masturbator Paul Reubens with both his hands in the air, I don't write \"Paul Reubens, aka Pee-wee Herman, waves to the crowd with both hands at an awards show on Friday\"; I write: \"Pee-wee Herman, attending an awards show on Friday, graciously keeps his hands where everyone can see them.\" It's unfair, but so far people seem to like it. \u2022 Caption Writing Person is an editor working somewhere inside The Globe and Mail. For a caption-writing demonstration, please post links to photos in the comment thread and he will attempt to produce a worthy caption.",
  "title": "You may know me as a snarky caption writer whose work went viral | Caption Writing Person",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/newspapers",
    "culture/comedy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/canada",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Caption Writing Person: Apparently, I am an internet-accredited comic genius after my celebrity captions for the Globe went viral. Put me to the test",
  "id": "commentisfree/2011/oct/19/caption-writing-person-globe",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}