{
  "content": "Every time a report on the cost of cybercrime is released it is met with intense scrutiny from within the security industry. McAfee's latest report is no different. Worldwide losses stemming from cybercrime have hit \u00a3266bn a year, according to the report. The company also claims that while a conservative estimate would measure the losses at \u00a3223bn, they could be as high as \u00a3342bn \u2013 between 0.5% and 0.8% of global GDP, just below the illegal drug trade's 0.9%. Yet there are various reasons to question these figures. The first concerns the dataset used by McAfee for the predictions. The company itself notes that \"any dollar amount for the global cost of cybercrime is an estimate based on incomplete data\", before putting a dollar amount on it. Rather than solely focusing on the amount of money criminals made from their exploits, the McAfee study involved collating publicly available data from individual countries, alongside information gleaned during interviews with government officials and experts. Much of this was anecdotal data. McAfee took all this information and used various methods to determine a range of estimates. They differed wildly. The \u00a3266bn figure was determined from aggregating costs as a share of regional incomes, which meant taking the percent of GDP that was lost to cybercrime from countries researched and added them up. Another method took the loss of high income countries and extrapolated that out to reach \u00a3342bn. The third and final calculation took the total amount for all countries where it could access open source data, which was again extrapolated to hit \u00a3223bn, the lowest estimate. McAfee said none of these approaches were \"satisfactory\", and admitted that putting a figure on the cost of cybercrime is difficult when many countries aren't recording costs effectively. In one case, the company was told losses in the EU hit $16bn, while another put losses at close to a trillion dollars. To remedy this, the research took conservative estimates from countries in which they had low confidence in the data. Countries with no reporting (for example Argentina) were left out. Yet the report even noted its estimates could have been overstated due to the variations of loss and the difficulty of valuing intellectual property, but claimed the anecdotal data it had suggested otherwise. \"If anything, data on crimes related to the theft of 'intangible' sources of value suggest it is more likely that we have underestimated the threat,\" it added. Indeed, much of the claims in the report are based on \"intangible\" stats. The addition of \"indirect costs\" to the estimates also confuses matters. Those costs include the money spent by breached businesses on security products to stop future digital attacks. They also include reputation recovery, such as the provision of free services (often this includes credit monitoring) for customers after a breach and PR costs. Given these indirect \"losses\" actually put money back into the economy, thanks to funds spent on products from the cyber security industry, which is estimated to be worth in excess of \u00a3100bn per annum, and on specialist consultancy firms that help with so-called \"cyber resiliency\" and response, the overall economic damage should be drastically reduced. \"Almost all the cost of security is the indirect cost, rather than what the bad guys get away with. That means what you spend with McAfee and their friends,\" said Ross Anderson, professor of security engineering at the University of Cambridge. \"So you have the delicious irony of the security industry warning the world in tones of feigned horror that its turnover is excessive.\" The \u00a3226bn figure is therefore misleading. But it shouldn't detract from the growing menace of cybercrime, which is undoubtedly causing individuals and businesses pain. US retailing giant Target has suffered greatly as a result of an attack that leaked more than 40 million customer credit card details. Not only has it seen the departure of its CEO and its chief information officer, it saw earnings drop 46%. Cryptolocker, the ransomware that locked up people's files and demanded payment before being disrupted by law enforcement this month, was said to have made its criminal creators more than $30m (\u00a318m). As McAfee noted, much cybercrime also goes unreported - another reason the dataset for the financial estimates was lacking. \"Data breaches are a global phenomenon. Sure we hear about the largest ones, or those in our own country, but this is happening the world over,\" explained Raj Samani, CTO in EMEA for McAfee.",
  "title": "Is the global cost of cybercrime really \u00a3266bn a year? No, it isn't",
  "lead": "There are reasons to be sceptical about McAfee's latest claims for the cost of online security breaches. By Tom Brewster",
  "tags": [
    "technology/cybercrime",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2014/jun/09/global-cost-of-cybercrime-266bn",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}