{
  "content": "Russell Brand has responded to last week's Parklife internet meme, which involved people tweeting passages from his book followed by the words 'Park Life', with his very own version of the 1994 Blur hit. The meme emerged after somebody pointed out on Twitter that his prose style was rather similar to that in the song. Brand didn't seem too offended, singing: \"Verbal dexterity plus estuary accent is what leads to the parody of ... park life.\" In a rival to the John Lewis Christmas advert, which this year told the troubling tale of a penguin mail-order bride, Sainsbury's has released their very own Christmas extravaganza \u2013 a big budget depiction of the famous Christmas day football match on the Western Front. The film was made in partnership with the Royal British Legion and ends with the tagline 'Christmas is for sharing'. Plenty of people have questioned the ethics of using the tragedy of the First World War to flog groceries, so we don't have to. An emotional video in which Chris Picco sings 'Blackbird' to his dying new born son Lennon after Chris's wife died giving birth has been shared widely across social media. Messages of support and donations have flooded in to the newly founded Ashley Picco Memorial Fund, which has raised over $65,000. Elsewhere on the internet, one woman explains exactly why Monster energy drink is the drink of the devil. In a video that seems to have been staged, a woman feigns inebriation to attempt to demonstrate how many creepy men there are on Hollywood Boulevard. And astronauts on the International Space Station play around with a water bubble. Lions feature twice in this week's run down \u2013 a lion lies back and happily accepts a foot massage from his brave owner and a baby elephant triumphs in a fight with a pride of determined lions. \"Dan O'Reilly, at best what you do is offensive, at worst it incites harassment and violence\" \u2013 This was Emily Maitlis's killer opening line in her interview with Vine star Dapper Laughs who went Newsnight to defend himself against accusations that his now-cancelled ITV show was offensive. He says the backlash against his rape jokes has \"wrecked his life.\" Poor Dapper Laughs. Finally, the intrepid travellers making their way up Kishtwar Kailash in the Indian Himalaya seem to find it hilarious that they're on one of the most terrifying roads in the world. Viewers who suffer from vertigo will not find it so funny. 1. PARKLIFE - featuring Rubberbandits Class Strife 2. Sainsbury's official Christmas 2014 Ad Christmas is for sharing 3. Father sings to dying baby son \"Spread your wings and learn to fly\" 4. Monster energy drinks are the work of Satan 666 5. Drunk Girl In Public (Social Experiment) Staged? 6. Space Station Astronauts Grow a Water Bubble in Space Water play 7. Lion loves a foot massage Lion in wait 8. Young elephant survives attack by 14 Lions Rumble in the jungle 9. \"Dapper Laughs is gone\" Bye bye 10. Kishtwar Kailash - Road To Basecamp Dizzying heights Source: Viral Video Chart. Compiled from data gathered at 16:00 on 13 November 2014. The Viral Video Chart is currently based on a count of the embedded videos and links on approximately 2m blogs, as well as Facebook and Twitter.",
  "title": "Viral video chart: Russell Brand again, Sainsbury's and Dapper Laughs",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/youtube",
    "culture/russell-brand",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/newsnight",
    "music/blur",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/vine"
  ],
  "lead": "Brand sings Parklife, Sainsbury's release a WW1 Christmas advert and the Vine star defends himself. By Frances Perraudin",
  "id": "media/2014/nov/14/viral-video-chart-russell-brand-sainsburys-dapper-laughs",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}