{
  "content": "Social media and connectivity is often described as being a godsend for the humanitarian aid worker. Where once we were exiled to a remote field office with no way of communicating with our loved ones for months at a time, now we can FaceTime with our kids when they come home from school or Skype our partner after a difficult day. We can also buffer our feeling of self-worth by Instagramming last night's beautiful sunset, or the scorpion we found in our mosquito net, basking in \"likes\" from our friends back home, who oblige with comments like \"OMG, you are so brave!\". Publicly we pretend such comments embarrass us, but really they help boost us on bad days and make us feel both less useless and less alone. As a communications officer for a large NGO, social media has also become an increasingly important part of my day job. I regularly use my networks to respond to questions from members of the public, highlight important developments in a crisis and share the stories of the real people behind the statistics. And yet recently I've begun to think that as our sector has rushed to embrace social media, we might have taken the brakes off too soon, with not enough consideration for the downsides. My own wake-up moment came on a recent deployment to a highly politicised conflict. As I covered the crisis I started to receive lots of anonymised abuse through my personal Twitter account: from people who thought I was too partisan, or, conversely, that I wasn't going far enough. I was accused of smearing and of whitewashing, of being both too naive and too cynical. I was targeted by one apparent activist network, which simply sent me pictures of children who had been horribly killed or injured in the conflict. I never knew why these were sent \u2013 only that they affected me terribly. Even after I had finally shut my laptop and gone to bed they persisted long after I had closed my eyes. Crucially, at no point did I report what I was experiencing to my organisation. The attacks were directed toward my own account and even though they were clearly related to my work, they felt very personal. Humanitarianism has always had a very blurred line between personal and professional. When you're out on a posting for months at a time your colleagues often become friends, work/life balance is an abstract concept, and your role as ambassador for your country/NGO/all NGOs never really goes away. Nowadays that role extends to our social profiles, and this can be dangerous ground that we are ill-prepared to deal with. Cyber abuse is just one possibility; inadvertently revealing programme locations in sensitive areas, or espousing political views not affiliated with our NGO are just some of the other pitfalls that await us. For organisations, social media has proven a supremely useful tool for connecting with the public, supporters, and even beneficiaries. NGOs are increasingly keen for humanitarian staff to write personalised blogs, live-tweet from the field, even take part in Reddit's \"ask me anything\". It goes a long way to help personalise the NGO's \"brand\". By encouraging us to use our personal profiles to speak about our work, NGOs are able to borrow our integrity and our personality. They must reciprocate by providing clear guidelines, support and advice when it goes wrong. Perhaps most concerning of all is the growing trend for NGOs and news agencies to encourage beneficiaries themselves to engage with the public. From a communications perspective I can see the attraction: our job is to amplify the voice of those affected, not to speak for them. In a world where Syrian refugees arrive off boats clutching smartphones, what better way than to tell their story than to give access directly to them? And yet, as CNN's recent Facebook Q&amp;A with a refugee showed, once this access is given it cannot be controlled or revoked - with potentially very damaging results. Even for those not directly mentioned, I often wonder what it must feel like to remain in a crisis long after the hashtags have stopped. A seasoned humanitarian colleague of mine recently expressed sympathy for my generation of aid workers, commenting that we are always contactable these days \u2013 never further than a Skype call from head office. \"That's a good thing though, isn't it?\" asked a relative newcomer to the sector. The rest of us chuckled darkly. Because of course having channels for constant communication doesn't necessarily improve communication. Rather than helping to bridge the gap between the field and HQ, more often than not it exacerbates it. A feeling of solidarity can be quickly punctured by an accidental reference to your colleague's Pret a Manger lunch or upcoming cinema-date. Technology might make people feel like they're in the room, but at the end of the day they're not. This illusion of closeness can have serious implications for our wellbeing. A Facebook profile may tell the tale of someone having a grand adventure, busy socialising and travelling, while the over-worked person behind it is feeling isolated and alone, close to burnout. Recently a friend and fellow aid worker on deployment wrote on Facebook: \"I know we're not supposed to write this sort of thing on here - but today I'm feeling lonely.\" In the tidal wave of positive response it was clear that she was not alone. It wasn't a professional statement, but a personal one. As humanitarianism becomes ever more \"professionalised\" it's important to remember that we're humans first. Do you have a secret aid worker story you'd like to tell? You can contact us confidentially at globaldevpros@theguardian.com \u2013 please put \"Secret aid worker\" in the subject line. Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow@GuardianGDP on Twitter",
  "title": "Secret aid worker: working in a war zone I never thought I'd get trolled online",
  "lead": "Blogging and tweeting from the field is encouraged by NGOs, but it is dangerous ground many aid workers are left to navigate alone",
  "tags": [
    "global-development-professionals-network/global-development-professionals-network",
    "global-development-professionals-network/people-in-development-global-development-professionals-network",
    "money/work-and-careers",
    "media/social-media",
    "film/secret-cinema"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "global-development-professionals-network/2015/dec/15/secret-aid-worker-what-it-feels-like-to-be-a-humanitarian-and-get-trolled-online",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}