{
  "content": "It is often suggested that the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, altered the nature of collective grief, rendering it suddenly acceptable to line the streets, send flowers and, most importantly, weep publicly at the death of someone you did not actually know. Fifteen years on, and nowhere is collective grief more manifest than on Twitter, where the announcement of the passing of any well-known name is inevitably met by a flurry of re-tweets, hashtags and sadface emoticons. Of course, the nature of news, reporting and the internet has shifted substantially; not only have audiences displayed an apparently insatiable appetite for celebrity tittle-tattle, but Twitter, in its relatively short lifetime, has come to be regarded by media outlets as an important tool for newsgathering and audience engagement. And so, in a phenomenon I call the Celebrity Death Twitter Harvest, a content-hungry media increasingly feasts on a glut of related tweets \u2013 now reporting not only the death of the celebrity, but also the resulting response of the celebrity world, however tenuous or downright non-existent the association. Consider the case of Clive Dunn, the much-loved star of Dad's Army, who died last week aged 92. Naturally, the death of such a cult figure prompted a huge response on social networking sites, and soon we were treated to Twitter eulogies by such stars as Tony Parsons, Martin Kemp of Spandau Ballet and Elizabeth Hurley, in whose contribution \u2013 \"RIP Clive Dunn thanks for all the hours of enjoyment watching Dad's Army\" \u2013 one likes to believe she was honouring not only enjoyment, but also the actor's inspiration for her forays into acting and swimwear. The death of Coronation Street's Bill Tarmey on Friday brought more of the same. Few publications are immune from reaping the celebrity Twitter grief. On the death of Terry Nutkins earlier this year, even the Guardian quoted comedian Ricky Gervais and Radio 1 DJ Greg James, neither of whom I believe to have been particular acquaintances of Nutkins, or, indeed, luminaries in the wildlife-broadcasting world. Unless we count Flanimals. \"So sad to hear about Terry Nutkins,\" wrote James. \"What an absolute icon. Him on TV was my childhood.\" This year we have encountered the high-profile passings of Neil Armstrong, Tony Scott and Hal David, and naturally the coverage that followed them often drew on celebrity tweets (\"Everyone should go outside and look at the moon tonight and give a thought to Neil Armstrong,\" ordered McFly's Tom Fletcher). But few could match the extraordinary response that greeted the death of Whitney Houston in February. Along with tributes from the music industry \u2013 Mariah Carey, Aretha Franklin, Dolly Parton and Quincy Jones, for instance \u2013 some publications cast their nets a little wider and scooped up the thoughts of the broader celebritysphere: the condolences of Paris Hilton and Kim Kardashian, not to mention what we assume to be the grief-addled ruminations of Katie Price: \"Omg noooo way my idol whitney noo way omg big shock. Your music made impact to my life.\" As well as England cricketer Kevin Pietersen: \"So tragic!!!! I regularly sing along to her songs.\" The only possible defence for all this celebrity Twitter-quoting is that it fulfills some important function in taking the temperature of our collective grief. So let's leave the last word to footballer-in-mourning Wayne Rooney: \"Cant believe it. I wanna run to u. I grew up listening to whitney. So everyone asking why im tweeting about her. Show some respect.\"",
  "title": "Clive Dunn and the Celebrity Death Twitter Harvest",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/celebrity",
    "technology/twitter",
    "lifeandstyle/death-and-dying",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "media/media",
    "media/blogging",
    "tv-and-radio/clive-dunn"
  ],
  "lead": "As the deluge of tweets following Clive Dunn's death shows, there is no shortage of celebrities willing to share their grief for stars they didn't actually know",
  "id": "lifeandstyle/shortcuts/2012/nov/11/clive-dunn-celebrity-death-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}