{
  "content": "Roy Greenslade is correct in his complaint that the media has broken its own code of conduct in its reporting of the alleged love life of David Blunkett (G2, August 23). But the code is voluntary, and the Press Complaints Commission worthless in trying to invoke it - refusing any third party complaints and insisting that only those named can call for its jurisdiction. The code could be enshrined in law and armed with serious sanctions for those who breach it. Can you imagine the outcry that would create about the freedom of the press being denied? But at least the idea would begin a public debate about the \"sensational\" tittle-tattle that passes for news, which has done nothing to stem dwindling newspaper sales. Indeed, why doesn't the PCC or some brave newspaper ask the people what they think? We have endless public opinion polls. Why not an honest one on the press? Gerald Isaaman Former member of the PCC Roy Greenslade has a curious view of how self-regulation of the press actually works if he thinks that editors gamble on whether or not the PCC will \"turn its face to the wall\" over the publication of certain stories. The PCC exists to investigate complaints from people who are the subject of newspaper reporting. Whenever there is a complaint we will consider it. This may not tally with Greenslade's neat view of the PCC, but we cannot and do not ignore complaints. What the PCC does not do, however, is make public statements about particular cases unless or until it is in possession of all the facts surrounding publication. Tim Toulmin Director, Press Complaints Commission",
  "title": "Letters: Take a poll on the press",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "politics/politics",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": " Roy Greenslade is correct in his complaint that the media has broken its own code of conduct in its reporting of the alleged love life of David Blunkett (G2, August 23), writes Tim Toulmin, director of the Press Complaints Commission.",
  "id": "media/2004/aug/24/pressandpublishing.politicsandthemedia",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}