{
  "content": "Thomas Hawk is the pen name of a photographer, blogger and web startup CEO who operates in the San Francisco Bay Area, and he is widely admired both for his blogs and his participation in \"photo walking\" -- as documented on video by A-list geek blogger Robert Scoble. Within that field, it's hard to think of anyone who has freely given more to more people, and in a gift ecomony, this means he has enormous influence. However, someone clearly not aware of Hawk's stature -- and who didn't care about it -- had him thrown out of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. This is not really a problem for Hawk, but it looks like becoming a major problem for the Museum, and its staff. Hawk blogged about the event, as he'd said he would, calling the Director of Visitor Relations at the museum an asshole, later reduced to jerk). Hawk's friend Jeremiah Owyang has pointed out that the online reputation of the individual referred to is now toast. Since he doesn't have anything like Hawk's online presence and widespread support (via blogs, Flickr, Zoomr, Twitter etc), the incident is likely to dominate any related searches for the foreseeable future. Two of Owyang's seven conclusions are: * Bloggers with large social media platforms are incredibly powerful, and must recognize the long term impacts of their actions. * Businesses should assume every customer (and employee) is capable of impacting an individual or company's online reputation In a comment (#28) to this post, Hawk has responded as follows (in part): The SF MOMA does not belong to Simon. He is merely a hired hand entrusted to help manage it for the public benefit. Yelling at paying members from the atrium floor, accusing people of taking down blouse shots, all of these things are entirely unprofessional. Even here though I was willing to let the situation go. But when Blint refused to examine my photographs, refused to discuss the matter rationally, refused in any way to diffuse the situation and simply insisted on throwing me out of the museum with the help of two security guards, I felt blogging the incident was the correct thing to do. It was at this point that I *told* Blint that if he ejected me that I'd be blogging this. It was at this point that I told him that this would affect his online reputation. He told me he did not care. I gave Blint *every opportunity* to diffuse the situation and ample warning of what was coming his way. Having the physical power to throw someone out of a museum is trivial and fleeting. Having the power to destroy someone's online reputation is decidedly non-trivial, and may well last. SF-MoMA is proably just starting to wake up (on a Monday morning) to the problem it now faces -- not just the threat to its image, but ultimately the threat to its finances. It will be interesting to see how it tries to handle it.",
  "title": "The power of the Hawk is a problem for SF-MoMA",
  "lead": "Throwing the esteemed Thomas Hawk out on his ear is not the way to win friends and influence people",
  "tags": [
    "technology/photography",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/blog/2008/aug/11/thepowerofthehawkisapro",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}