{
  "content": "The Swedish co-founder of the Pirate Bay file-sharing website can be extradited to Denmark to face hacking charges, a Swedish court has ruled. Gottfrid Svartholm Warg is accused of involvement in one of Denmark's biggest hacking attacks \u2013 on databases holding driving licence records, official email messages and millions of social security numbers. The attacks on the databases, all run by a Danish subsidiary of the US technology company CSC, took place between April and August last year. A 20-year-old Danish man, alleged to be Warg's accomplice, is being held in custody in Denmark, having pleaded not guilty. The decision by the Nacka district court comes as Warg, 28, who remains in custody in Sweden, awaits the verdict expected this week in a trial in Sweden in which he was accused of hacking into the IT systems of the Logica services company and stealing ID details of 9,000 Swedes. He allegedly attempted to transfer 5.7m Swedish kronor (\u00a3560,000) to various accounts. He can appeal against the extradition decision, which will also be dependent on the verdict and any sentence in the Logica trial. Warg and the other three Pirate Bay co-founders were found guilty in 2009 of assisting the distribution of illegal content online. They were all handed jail terms and a collective fine of $2m (\u00a31.3m), increased at their appeal to $6.5m. Warg left the country before serving his sentence but was deported from Cambodia last year. His case falls under a Nordic arrest warrant, which means there is no legal review of evidence in the case. That distinguishes it from the case of the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who has justified sheltering in the Ecuadorean embassy in London for a year to avoid extradition to Sweden to face sex assault and rape accusations, which he denies, by arguing that he would face onward extradition to the US to face potential charges relating to the WikiLeaks releases.",
  "title": "Pirate Bay co-founder can be extradited from Sweden to Denmark, court rules",
  "lead": "Gottfrid Svartholm Warg is accused of involvement in one of Denmark's biggest hacking attacks",
  "tags": [
    "technology/pirate-bay",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/piracy",
    "technology/file-sharing",
    "technology/technology",
    "law/extradition",
    "law/criminal-justice",
    "law/law",
    "technology/hacking",
    "world/sweden",
    "world/europe-news",
    "world/world",
    "world/denmark"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2013/jun/18/pirate-bay-founder-extradited-sweden-denmark",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}