{
  "content": "I could be one of the last of a dying breed. No, not a cynical old hack \u2013 there is still a steady trickle joining the ranks. But one of the very few Londoners left who does not have an Oyster card for navigating around the capital's public transport system. For those who mysteriously still live outside the Great Wen, an Oyster card is a credit-card sized piece of plastic that you load up with virtual cash and use to \"touch in, touch out\" on readers at all entrances and exits to the Tube network and on buses \u2013 and soon overground train stations \u2013 to register and pay for journeys. The incentive for users is the ease of it \u2013 no working out which zones cost what, at which time of day \u2013 and most importantly access to the cheapest fares. So why, with a cry of Willmott and Liberty, am I refusenik? For the most committed of the I Know My Rights brigade, it's possible to take out a card anonymously and even pay with untraceable cash. And in a valedictory visit to the Guardian last week, the outgoing information commissioner, Richard Thomas, gave Transport for London a clean bill of health as far as data protection and handling is concerned. So is it just Luddism to hold out against a technology which offers both ease of use for the passenger \u2013 sorry, customer \u2013 and cost savings for TfL, and ultimately travellers and London taxpayers? I certainly have nothing against using new technologies to develop more efficient systems. And nor do I expect that I'm suddenly going to receive a heavy-breathing style phone call asking why I was visiting Ongar on Saturday, or get a wink and \"Hounslow West, eh?\" from a member of London Transport staff. I'm well aware that if I drive into town a congestion charge camera \u2013 not to mention several traffic management cameras along the way \u2013 will very definitely give the authorities my number; and every time I use a credit card, my location and the business I'm transacting is recorded and probably available to the powers that be under the Regulation of Something or Other Act. But that's really the nub of the issue: my movements are already being tracked and recorded enough by means that I can't really do a lot about, that I don't want the dots joined up to give a complete picture of my daily movements. For me it's just a line in the sand \u2013 albeit a fairly wobbly one and subject to the incoming tides of practicality. It's not an act of civil disobedience to help bring down the system, nor do I have any desire to take away the liberty of anyone who does want to use the card. It's a personal decision. I hope I'm not paranoid, but restrictions and monitoring of travel seems to me a defining feature of all dictatorships. It's no accident that the mass trespass of Trabants over the East German border to Hungary was the queue for the crumbling of the Berlin Wall. Now I know some on the left have a problem with this kind of individualism \u2013 and may look askance at a position which \u2013 in however small a way \u2013 undermines the social good. After all, was not this pearl which is the Oyster card introduced by Hero Of Labour Red Ken himself? But hereby lies an object lesson in how basic liberties \u2013 if you think the right to go about your business without leaving an audit trail of what you get up to (in my case, very little) \u2013 are eroded. Maybe I'm wrong, but I don't remember Ken Livingstone ever promising us a cute little payment card (incidentally loaning TfL millions in interest-free pre-payments). What he did promise, was to bring back conductors on buses \u2013 a hugely popular policy both when he originally stood for mayor, and today. Many people of all ages think their presence might lead to better behaviour and make them feel safer. But that's the trouble with technical fixes ... one thing leads to another. If you don't have someone to collect the fares without holding up the traffic, you have to find a technology to do it. But people feel unsafe without a responsible adult, so bring in CCTV on all buses. The appearance of the dreaded yellow Oyster machines at my local train station was accompanied by an announcement by First Express Mainline Connect, or whoever it is that runs my particular bit of British Rail now, that the ticket office was to close and we were to lose our cheerful, efficient and much-loved ticket office clerk. So once again, commuters, particularly early morning ones, will feel unsafe, more cameras will be installed, and our record as the people subject to the most surveillance in the world will be put out of sight of all comers. Of course it may well be a that I am a cyncial old hack and that it's just a generational thing to mistrust those in authority with all this stored data. After all, younger people are quite happy to put up every detail of their lives and every move they make (in all senses) on Facebook and other social networking sites. Maybe the best defence of liberty is simply complete openness and such a plethora of data that it cannot be sensibly be processed. And don't we live in a democracy? Surely, if these data are used, it will only be to track terrorists to keep us all safe? We are now facing a deep recession and already we see signs of the kind of social unrest we haven't seen for nearly 30 years, well before all this technology was developed. It will be an interesting test of how innocent are our data gatherers, when faced with all the inconvenience and challenge of strikes and sit-ins and demonstrations. For the moment I'll be sticking to buying my daily travelcard with unmarked notes.",
  "title": "Nigel Willmott: Our movements are tracked enough already. For me, 'touching in and out' of tube stations is a step too far",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/transport",
    "uk/london",
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "technology/data-protection"
  ],
  "lead": "Nigel Willmott: Our movements are being tracked enough already. For me, having to 'touch in, touch out' at tube stations is a step too far",
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/feb/03/oyster-card-transport-london",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}