{
  "content": "The story, if apocryphal, is at least a fair approximation of the truth. In 1840, a delegation of Russian investors paid a visit the UK to watch the construction of the London and South-western Railway. The station they visited was Vauxhall; and because they confused the word on the building with the name of the concept, ever since that day, the Russian word for a large train station has been vokzal. Before you laugh too hard, bear in mind that English speakers may be about to do exactly the same thing. You must have noticed that there's a new meme in town. After a slew of cases of people using online forums and social media to insult, racially abuse or harass high-profile figures \u2013 Louise Mensch, Fabrice Muamba, Noel Edmonds and now the Guardian's own Grace Dent \u2013 the media have taken it upon themselves to foist a new word upon us: troll (n: online bully. v: to bully in a discussion group or social network). Granted, the term has cropped up in the mainstream before; the first use in the Guardian in something like its current sense seems to have been in 2002, the year, perhaps not uncoincidentally, after Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings. But now that MPs, judges, and even Noel Edmonds know what it means, \"troll\", in its shiny new sense, seems to have reached its tipping point. There's one problem. According to a vocal minority of veteran internet users, we've got the wrong word. Troll, they say, does not mean bully, and trolling does not mean harassment. And the evidence seems to back them up. James Ball, in a recent piece for the Guardian, described \"trolls\" as \"a small and specific subset of online communities who write provocative and offensive posts specifically to elicit reaction\". Knowyourmeme.com gives: \"Any behavior that is meant to intentionally anger or frustrate someone else.\" The OED's draft entry on the subject reads: \"Computing slang. A person who posts deliberately erroneous or antagonistic messages to a newsgroup or similar forum with the intention of eliciting a hostile or corrective response.\" Hmm. Not quite the same thing as a bully, then. In fact, the objectors point out, there are other perfectly good internet slang words that do mean bully, such as \"flamer\" and \"griefer\" (not to mention some in everyday use \u2013 such as, er, bully). And the distinction has been clearly drawn for years. To give some examples, a troll might constantly change the subject of a discussion topic for the hell of it; a \"flamer\" would insult someone because he disagreed with them. A troll might suggest that a previous poster in a forum was using an argument popular in Hitler's Germany; a flamer would call the poster a Nazi. The difference between a troll and a flamer, to use a simile from a bygone era, is somewhat akin to the difference between a prank caller and a heavy breather. It seems to be widely agreed that the practice of trolling, in its older internet sense, began in the late 1980s or early 90s in the MUDs (multi-user dungeons) or Usenet discussion groups. One of the favourite pastimes of these early net users was to \"troll for newbies\" \u2013 to ask questions or start discussions that established users knew were old hat with the intention of showing up new, gullible users. Interestingly, while the verb form of the word is used frequently, in transcripts of the Usenet days, you often find the formation \"troller\", rather than \"troll\", to describe one who engages in trolling, suggesting that the word was originally a verb, and that the noun came later. And if you go back a few more years, that's just what you find. In 1972, the term \"trolling for MiGs\" is documented as being used by US navy pilots in Vietnam, with the sense of \"searching/lying in wait for/ trying to provoke a reaction from\" enemy planes. The pilots in turn were putting a new spin on an old fishing term, to troll, meaning \"to fish a pike by working a dead bait by a sink-and-draw motion\" \u2013 possibly influenced by the similar-sounding word trawl \u2013 or yet another sense of troll, meaning \"to move or walk about or to and fro\". (The former seems more likely if you consider that a close synonym for what the pilots and Usenet ruffians were doing is \"baiting\".) This in turn comes from the Old French verb troller, a hunting term, meaning to go in quest of game. Etymologically speaking, then, the internet sense of the word \"troll\" has nothing to do with bridges or Billy Goats Gruff. But the issue at hand is the most recent semantic shift. How did an imp become a devil overnight? The answer, in all likelihood, is journalism. Just as the Russians, with their poor English, popped into south-west London, saw a word associated with a new concept (in this case, the sign on the station), and stole it without checking their facts, so some hapless journalist with a poor grasp of online lingo has popped into the internet, seen a word associated with a new concept (in this case, bad behaviour on the internet), and stolen it without checking the facts. And other journalists, and now Noel Edmonds, probably strongly influenced by the unrelated Nordic sense of the word troll, have latched on to it. Is there any sense in fighting it? Meanings change. If they didn't, language wouldn't be the rich, vibrant organ that it is. You only have to look at the tortuous evolutions of the words gay, silly, trivia and, most spectacularly, nice to realise the futility of resisting them. And just as Russian speakers are unlikely to suddenly give up the word vokzal, so English speakers, after a succession of news stories in which the word has been rammed down their throats, are unlikely to stop using the word \"troll\" to mean \"evil monster on the internet\". All of which the bridge-based, Billy Goats Gruff troll might find ironic, as he too was the victim of a semantic shift: in the original Old Norse myths, the troll was a relatively innocuous creature \u2013 it was only in recent Scandinavian folklore that he was upgraded to an evil monster. \u2022 Andy Bodle is a subeditor and contributor to the Guardian Style Guide who will shortly be launching a blog at Womanology.co.uk",
  "title": "Trolls: where do they come from?",
  "lead": "Andy Bodle: From goat-hassling monsters to online nuisances, trolls have had a bad press. But they are not the same as bullies \u2013 recent stories have created a linguistic muddle",
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "science/language",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/mind-your-language/2012/apr/19/trolls-where-come-from",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}