{
  "content": "The 2015 general election will be an important test for local and regional news. This year, we'll find out whether local journalists have begun to recognise how important digital technology is for its audience. This doesn't mean local and regional print won't be important in the run-up to 7 May. What appears in the pages of our local newspapers will still shape and reinforce readers' views \u2013 when the local paper reports on the sitting or prospective local MP, it counts. But the local press will also have to be at the top of its digital game in this election. Such has been the speed of the growth of digital channels in local and regional reporting that it's easy to forget just how much has changed. Although Facebook and Twitter were out of their toddler years by the last election five years ago, Instagram and Pinterest were newborns in 2010 and Snapchat wasn't even a gleam in a developer's eye. Few local or regional journalists would have been making significant use of Facebook or Twitter at the last election. It's very different in 2015. Local news is and should continually develop what editorial teams do and how they do it, to meet the demands of audiences who have ever more online sources of local news. This means publishing news stories online first. There is no waiting around for the next print edition. Election coverage in the regional press will, without doubt, be digital first. There will be an emphasis on speed and reporting events as they happen, not well after they have happened. The whole cycle of a news story is now swifter than ever. It has to be live. Equally, audiences' response to events in the general election campaign, expressed on social media, won't just be layered around stories, but will be part of them. Video on local and regional sites will also be a feature of the 2015 campaign. Local and regional reporters should be equipped to capture a story on video. Audiences often have their smartphones in their hands, and so too should journalists. Hustings where a reporter sits in the front row taking shorthand notes to shape subsequent reporting are now more likely to be aired live online on a local press website. With party politics increasingly a turn off for the electorate, we can also expect national issues, rather than internal machinations, sniping and backbiting, to dominate media coverage. The UK economy, health, education, immigration and transport, will be a focus, while the impact policy decisions in these areas have on individual communities will dominate local media coverage. This ability to tell stories that closely connect to the local audience is what sets the local press apart. The future shape of the NHS, for example, will be a key area of debate in the next few months. For Johnston Press titles, it will be what that debate means for each local community that makes the headlines. People may tire of theoretical debates around healthcare, but print and online readers of the Scarborough News, for example, will care that their local hospital had to bring in emergency measures to deal with demand in the opening days of January \u2013 and that's where the local media storytelling concentrates. In the past, it was the experience of the newsroom alone that dictated which stories were covered. In covering the 2015 general election, journalists will need to look to real-time analytics to show interest levels in particular stories. In 2010, newsrooms would have to wait until the following day to see how popular coverage had been. This time round, newsrooms can see immediately what's attracting and holding interest digitally, and act accordingly. If we need an example of big political stories attracting interest and generating significant discussion and online interaction with the regional press, we only need to look to the recent Scottish independence referendum. Johnston Press titles across Scotland, from The Southern Reporter in the Borders right up to the Stornoway Gazette in the Outer Hebrides, reported on what the competing arguments might mean for their local communities. An independence debate site was created by Johnston Press to cover the broader issues, run by journalists at The Scotsman in Edinburgh. It brought together the best of the reporting from Johnston Press journalists with the best of coverage elsewhere, from established media organisations and the broader population, sharing views on social media. This approach, aggregating interesting content, will be a feature of local and regional coverage in the election this year, too. The local and regional press have been covering elections for a long time. The parliamentary upheavals of the 19th century coincided with the arrival of many local and regional titles that are still with us in 2015. In some communities, many people could buy their local paper long before they could cast a vote. Underpinning the success of local and regional media through the centuries has been its ability to connect directly with its audience. This remains the case in 2015 \u2013 the only difference being that this connection will be achieved in a data-driven, multi-platform way, ensuring relevance for voters and political parties. Ashley Highfield is chief executive and Paul Napier is group editorial development director at Johnston Press. Ashley is a speaker at this year's Guardian Changing Media Summit More like this: \u2022 Hearst UK chief Anna Jones on the enduring power of print magazines \u2022 Nick Baughan of Maxus UK: 'Embrace change, don't fear it' \u2022 Social engagement now more important than TV ratings, says Fremantle boss To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \"Brought to you by\" \u2013 find out more here.",
  "title": "The general election is an important digital test for local news",
  "lead": "The speed and growth of digital channels means the local press will have to be at the top of its digital game in this election. Ashley Highfield and Paul Napier report",
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "media-network/changing-media-summit",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "politics/general-election-2015",
    "politics/politics",
    "business/johnstonpress",
    "business/business",
    "media/johnston-press",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/pinterest",
    "technology/snapchat"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media-network/2015/feb/02/general-election-2015-coverage-local-news-digital",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}