{
  "content": "Telecommunication companies will be required to store a \"uniform or standard\" amount of their customers' metadata for two years, government officials have clarified. The telecommunications industry is struggling to understand the new data retention plan announced Tuesday because different companies store different quantities of information, but Tony Abbott is assuring the industry the government is \"not asking for anything that isn't already being done\". \"This idea that we are asking the telecommunications providers to store material that isn't already kept and stored is just wrong. We are not asking for new information, we are simply asking telecommunications providers to continue to keep what they currently keep,\" the prime minister said on Wednesday as he explained the plan. Since telcos do not all store the same type or amount of information a requirement for them to keep what they now store for a longer period would mean they would still be storing widely varying amounts of data. At a briefing government officials said in most cases the required information would not change, but the government would be setting a \"uniform standard\" \u2013 suggesting the imposition on some companies will be increased. They said metadata to be retained would include the name, address, mobile number and billing address of a person making a call and of those who they were calling, general location information about where the phone was used, the internet identifier of a computer user, the IP address of sites accessed and the time, dates and duration of communications. They said this meant that if authorisation for metadata access was obtained by law enforcers, they would be able to determine what sites a target was looking at, but not what they were doing within that site. To get more information, or to do real time tracking of a target's communications use, law enforcers need to obtain a warrant, but the officials argued metadata had been crucial in tracking suspected terrorists and solving crimes including murders and abductions. John Stanton, chief executive of the communications industry peak body the Communications Alliance, said: \"Internet service providers and telecommunications companies all retain different things for different periods of time. \"The differences between companies makes it pretty complex.\" Asked about privacy concerns, Abbott told ABC radio he had \"no doubt that the civil libertarian brigade will do their best to stop this, but my responsibility as prime minister is to keep our country safe. That's my responsibility and all of the expert advice from every single counter-terrorist agency is that this information is absolutely essential if we are to maintain our vigilance against terrorist activity.\" He also dismissed predictions by the internet provider iinet that the provisions could cost consumers $100 a year when the cost of accessible storage was passed through. \"Well, I don't know why they would be saying that because this is information which is already kept,\" he said. \"It's information which is currently kept, it's information which is currently done, it's embedded in the current price \u2013 it's already factored into current pricing structures.\" The company's chief regulatory officer, Steve Dalby told Guardian Australia the $100 figure had been based on an earlier briefing paper provided by the Attorney General's Department which suggested companies would be required to cover \"all originating and destination data for all internet access, email and phone calls\". \"That would have covered Facebook, Twitter, Skype, what you buy, what you do, your entire browsing history,\" he said. \"No internet company needs to keep that and if [the government] is now backing down and saying we don't need to, that we don't need to keep anything in addition to what we currently keep, then that's great, but our only information is a briefing paper that says exactly the opposite. \"I am confused. We would love some clarity about what will be expected of us.\" The acting Greens leader, Adam Bandt, said Abbott was \"wrong to claim that ISPs already store metadata. The ISPs have consistently said that they only collect a limited amount of data, usually only for billing purposes and there is a big difference between what they store and providing this information to the government and its agencies. \"If the government suspects people are engaging in illegal activities online, it should have to seek a warrant, as is the case with other kinds of communication,\" Bandt said. Abbott said \"an interesting, and I think instructive, metaphor\" for the government's plan was that of an old-fashioned letter. \"The contents of the letter will remain private. All we want is for the telecommunications companies to continue to keep the person sending the information, the person to whom the information is being sent, the time it was sent and the place it was sent from. It's, as it were, the information on the front of the envelope which is currently kept, has been kept, we want it to continue to be kept; that's what we're proposing.\" On Tuesday the Daily Telegraph said it was expected that George Brandis and Malcom Turnbull would work up an urgent interim measure by as early as September, with legislation to be introduced later \u2013 after the government has considered a report from a Senate inquiry. The government is now saying data retention laws will form a \"third tranche\" of anti-terrorism laws to be finalised by the end of the year. It is unclear whether the urgent interim laws are still part of the plan.",
  "title": "Metadata: telcos confused by conflicting messages from Abbott government",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "australia-news/australian-politics",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "world/surveillance",
    "business/telecoms",
    "technology/telecoms",
    "australia-news/tony-abbott",
    "australia-news/australia-news"
  ],
  "lead": "Tony Abbott insists companies will be asked to retain only what they already keep \u2013 contradicting earlier briefings",
  "id": "world/2014/aug/06/metadata-telcos-confused-by-conflicting-messages-from-abbott-government",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}