{
  "content": "\u2022 The emergency data retention and investigatory powers bill has finished is passage through parliament and is set to become law imminently. \u2022 Helen Goodman, a shadow minister, has apologised for posting a tweet saying that the female ministers featured in the Daily Mail were \"all puppets who'll change nothing\" and that their appearance was the most interesting thing about them. It was \"a light-hearted remark\", she claimed. (See 2.11pm.) \u2022 Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, has written to Theresa May, the home secretary, demanding to know if it is true that the police do not have the resources to arrest all child abuse suspects. Here's an extract. Reports that over 10,000 [child abuse] suspects have been identified by this same investigation but that the police lack the capacity to pursue these suspects are extremely concerning. The [National Crime Agency] have clearly briefed the Times that, \"such is the extent of the offending that police cannot arrest every suspect - the criminal courts would be unable to cope with the caseload and prison overcrowding could hit breaking point\". You will be aware that the deputy director general of the NCA has said; \"there are questions here for society, for policy makers... We cannot afford not to look under this stone. But are we going to be able to arrest our way out of this problem? I doubt it...\" In the Commons earlier May said that she could not comment on the 10,000 suspects figure because the NCA's investigation was ongoing. \u2022 Labour has said that the Lib Dems should return the \u00a32.4m donation they received from the fraudster Michael Brown in the light of today's report from the parliamentary ombudsman saying the electoral commission did not investigate it properly. Michael Dugher, the shadow Cabinet Office minister, said: Nick Clegg and the Liberal Democrats have justified their inaction against the convicted fraudster Michael Brown by hiding behind a report which has now been totally discredited. For years Clegg has dodged questions on when the Lib Dems will pay back the donations. Clegg has nowhere now to hide. He should do the decent thing and pay back this money straight away. That's all from me for today. Thanks for the comments. Here's a short, afternoon, Gove-related reading list. \u2022 Isabel Hardman at Coffee House says Michael Gove will not be given as much free rein to speak to the media in his new role as chief whip as some assume. \u2022 Alex Stevenson at politics.co.uk explains what exactly what happened when Gove got \"stuck in the toilet\" during a vote yesterday. The emergency data retention and investigatory bill has now cleared the House of Lords. The Home Office minister Lord Taylor of Holbeach took it through its report stage and third reading in about 90 seconds. It will now become law very soon. The emergency data retention and investigatory powers bill is now virtually certain to become law without any further changes. The bill has finished its committee stage in the House of Lords. All four amendments that were debated were withdrawn, and so there were no votes. The bill still has to go through its report stage, and the report stage is when peers normally push contentious issues to a vote. They wait until then to allow the government time to make changes. But the bill is going to get its report stage in about an hour's time - currently, peers are listening to a statement on the on-the-runs review - and nothing will have changed between now and then. There is no indication that anyone is going to force a vote then. Of the four amendments debated, three were very technical. (One virtually revolved around the difference between \"necessary\" and \"strictly necessary\".) The substantive one was a proposal for the sunset clause in the bill to take effect in 2015, instead of 2016. It was tabled by Lord Phillips of Sudbury, a Liberal Democrat, Lady Kennedy of the Shaws, the Labour barrister, Lady Kidron, a film director and crossbencher and Lord Hodgson of Astley Abbotts, a Conservative. They all spoke in favour. But other peers argued that, with an election next year, it would be unreasonable to expect the review of surveillance legislation to be concluded, and a new, better replacement law to be passed by parliament by 2015 not 2016. At the end Phillips conceded that his argument had won him over. I'll be quite frank. My views have been influenced by what has been said and I have to say to the minister [Lord Taylor of Holbeach], so long as he was serious, and I'm sure he was because he's a sincere man, so long as the tenure of what he said is carried into effect in the time ahead of us, namely that the government will make haste, albeit slowly, that the government will take the public of this country into consideration into defining and putting together the new legislation to come, so long as those things are done, then I think it is appropriate for this amendment to be withdrawn. Because I have to say that that the arguments made about the timescales, especially given the forthcoming general election, seem to me to be correct. Helen Goodman has withdrawn her tweet and apologised. (See 1.45pm and 2.09pm.) Nicky Morgan, the new education secretary and equalities minister, has condemned Helen Goodman's tweet about the female ministers promoted on Tuesday (see 1.45pm) as \"appalling\". \u2022 Nick Clegg has said that the \"headbangers\" in the Conservative party have won an internal battle after David Cameron signalled the \"death knell\" for moderate Tories by ending the frontbench careers of ministers such as Kenneth Clarke in this week's reshuffle. As Nicholas Watt reports, in some of his most aggressive comments about his coalition partners, the Liberal Democrat leader said the attorney general, Dominic Grieve, was sacked to allow the Tories to line up with \"tyrants\" such as Vladimir Putin in opposing the European convention on human rights. Clegg spoke out as fresh details emerged of Cameron's plans to assert the supremacy of parliament over the European court ofhuman rights to avoid a repeat of the rows over the deportation of foreign criminals. \u2022 Clegg has defended the Lib Dems' decision to end their support for the bedroom tax in its current form. But Labour's Rachel Reeves said this was \"unbelievable hypocrisy\". This is unbelievable hypocrisy from Nick Clegg. The Lib Dems voted for the bedroom tax. There wouldn't be a bedroom tax if it wasn't for the Lib Dems. And in February when Labour tabled a bill to scrap the bedroom tax, the Lib Dems were nowhere to be seen. It is clear the only way to cancel the bedroom tax is to elect a Labour government next year. And Downing Street said the new Lib Dem stance would not affect government policy. The prime minister's spokesman said: At the end of the day, there has not been a change in policy. It is open for parties [in the coalition] to make commitments for their manifestos, but the government policy hasn't changed and won't be changing. \u2022 Clegg has said that the removal of Michael Gove as education secretary will allow the Government to \"turn the page\" and rebuild relations with teachers who were \"denigrated\" by his approach. Speaking on his LBC phone-in, Call Clegg, he said: I think this is an opportunity - and I am assuming that in a quiet moment [Gove] would concede this - for us to turn the page on what I think had become a really destructive relationship between the Department for Education and many, many teachers across the country. There are good teachers, there are bad teachers, teachers up for change and teachers who aren't, but you don't get the best out of teachers by branding them all as folk who don't want to do their best. That's why I would like to think that with a change of personnel we can now turn the page and instead of denigrating teachers, we can celebrate what many, many teachers across the country do. \u2022 Cameron has endured an awkward-looking encounter with Jean-Claude Juncker after failing to block his appointment to the EU's top job. \u2022 An independent review has concluded that the post-Troubles scheme devised to reassure Irish republican \"on-the-runs\" (OTRs) that they were no longer wanted by the police was lawful and did not give terrorist suspects an amnesty. \u2022 Peter Kilfoyle, a former Labour defence minister and former Liverpool Walton MP, has said he supports Scottish independence. He spoke out after he met Alex Salmond in Liverpool, where the Scottish first minister was speaking at the International Festival for Business. Kilfoyle said: Of course, the immediate case of the Scottish ballot is a matter for Scots to decide. However, it strikes me that the aspirational message of the Yes campaign is far more attractive than the negativity and scaremongering of the No lobby. I trust Scots will recall the wise words of Franklin D. Roosevelt - 'the only thing we have to fear is fear itself'. As a Labour Party member for 50 years, hoping to do my bit to improve the lot of working people throughout the British Isles, it seems to me that a Scottish vote for independence will make Scots masters of their own destiny rather than dependent on the fiat of a London-based establishment. A Yes vote could also be the lever for a new constitutional settlement for the regions of England. \u2022 The Parliamentary Ombudsman has concluded that the Electoral Commission failed properly to investigate \u00a32.4m in donations to the Liberal Democrats by a businessman later convicted of fraud. But the commission refused to accept the finding or apologise, with the parliamentary ombudsman now referring the case to parliament for possible further action. As the Press Association reports, in 2009, the commission decided after a long-running investigation that the donations received from 5th Avenue Partners ahead of the 2005 general election had been permissible and that the party should be allowed to keep them. 5th Avenue Partners was the trading company of Michael Brown, who was convicted of fraud in his absence in 2008 and spent nearly four years on the run before starting a seven-year jail sentence in 2012. But the ombudsman said the commission \"did not make adequate inquiries of the party\" and simply \"relied on assurances\" given by Lib Dem chiefs that they had taken all reasonable steps at the time to establish that the donations were legitimate. \u2022 Crime figures released today have shown that sexual offences recorded by police in England and Wales increased by 20% in the year to March. But the level of overall recorded crime has not changed. \u2022 Angela Eagle, the shadow leader of the Commons, has revealed that Michael Gove got stuck in a Common toilet yesterday on his first day as chief whip. \u2022 Helen Goodman, a Labour MP and shadow media minister, has defended the Daily Mail's sexist coverage of the female ministers being promoted yesterday and described them as \"puppets who's change nothing\". In the debate on the emergency surveillance bill, Lord Butler of Brockwell, the former cabinet secretary and a member of the intelligence and security committee, told peers that the ISC met the head of GCHQ, Sir Iain Lobban, on Tuesday to discuss the bill. Lobban convinced the committee that the bill was needed, Butler said. He said the situation has changed since the government published its draft communications data bill two years ago. There have been developments since 2012 which have affected the attitude of the [communications service providers]; the activities of Mr Snowden, for example. The committee, the ISC, was satisfied that there is a serious risk of loss of visibility of people who ought to be under observation and that the government's arguments that this is an urgent matter were justified. Butler was just making an intervention, not a full speech. He did not elaborate on how the Edward Snowden revelations had changed the views of communications service providers. Earlier, in response to Nick Clegg's jibe about the Tories now being under the control of \"headbangers\", I quoted a Tory source mocking his poll ratings. (See 11.16am.) For the record, here are today's YouGov GB polling figures. Labour: 36% (down 2 points from YouGov yesterday) Conservatives: 33% (down 1) Ukip: 13% (no change) Lib Dems: 9% (up 3) Labour lead: 3 points (down 1) Government approval: -21 (down 1) Yesterday the Lib Dems were on just 6%, which I think is equal to their lowest ratings in a YouGov poll since the election. Today Southampton University's Polling Observatory has also published its latest general election forecast. This is based on a forecasting model that takes current polling data and adapts it in accordance with the way polls have shifted in the past in the run-up to a general election. It is forecasting a dead heat. Our forecast, which builds on the historical polling record alone to project forwards to next year's general election, again puts Labour and the Conservatives in a statistical dead heat, although Labour has edged up to 36.2% and the Conservatives have fallen back slightly to 35.5%. This Labour lead of 0.7% is far too small to be statistically meaningful at this stage, with polls still providing a very uncertain guide to the outcome. This movement reflects the fact that Labour are holding their support, where the historical record suggests we should be expecting declines at this point. In contrast, the forecast for the Conservatives is on a downward slope, indicating that they are not making the gains that history would typically expect. Our colleague Steven Fisher has foundsimilar trends in his model, which also builds on historical polling data. If the current poll lead continues into the autumn, the Conservatives may well need to start worrying \u2013 the accuracy of polling as a predictor of the general election outcome steadily increases as we enter the last six months. In its post, Polling Observatory also says it is a mistake to assume that there is always a swing back to the government in the year before an election. There is a \"swing back\" tendency towards the government \u2013 on average the governing party picks up three percentage points in the last year, and the opposition loses 2.4 points. But there is a lot of variation around this mean. In some elections, such as 1987 and 1970 there is a dramatic swing back to the government (though note that, on these occasions, the sharp rise in government popularity may have helped trigger the election in the first place, something now impossible with fixed term parliaments). On other occasions, such as 1979 and 1992, the polls record a swing away from the government in the last year. So while an improvement in the Conservatives' relative position is historically likely, it is not certain, and it is unlikely to be a dramatic shift. Peers have now resumed their debate on the emergency data retention and investigatory powers bill. It's the bill's committee stage. Four amendments have been tabled. The most significant is one that would convert the two-year sunset clause into a one-year sunset clause. It is not clear yet whether these will be put to a vote. But, with all three main parties supporting the bill in its current form, even if there is a vote, the chances of the government losing are minimal. I won't be covering the debate minute by minute, but I will be keeping an eye on it, and covering any votes or key speeches. In the Commons William Hague is making his debut at business questions as the new leader of the Commons. In recent years business questions has become a mini comedy special because Angela Eagle, the shadow leader of the Commons, uses her chance to ask about forthcoming government business to make an after dinner-style speech mocking the coalition. She does it very well. Andrew Lansley's responses were always a bit leaden, but Hague can tell a joke as well as anyone and, judging by today's encounter, Eagle/Hague are always going to put on a good show. Today they were particularly funny about Michael Gove, who apparently got stuck in a toilet yesterday on his first day as chief whip. Eagle revealed this. [Gove] has not had the most auspicious of starts. Yesterday he not only lost his first vote, but he managed to get stuck in the toilet in the wrong lobby. And he nearly broke his own whip. And Hague replied: She joined in welcoming the new chief whip and made fun of what he was doing yesterday. Knowledge of who is in the toilets in whatever lobby is a very important piece of information for any chief whip and I take this as evidence that he was carrying out his duties very assiduously. Hague was referring to the fact that, in the past at least, whips were expected to patrol the Commons toilets on the night of a big vote to find any MPs likely to miss the division. Business for New Europe, the pro-European business group, has criticised the Tory plans to curb the powers of the European court of human rights. It has put out this statement. Reports that a future Conservative Government would pass a law to limit the role of the European court are extremely worrying. It is strongly in the interests of ordinary UK citizens and any UK governments to have clear and enforceable standards of human rights both nationally and internationally. To undermine the system because we do not agree with a tiny minority of the court's judgements would be short-sighted populism of the worst kind, and would seriously damage our credibility on the international stage. How could the UK challenge human rights abuses elsewhere in the world if it signals that it is not prepared to work within the system \u2013 a system that the UK itself played such a big part in creating? And the Tories have hit back at Nick Clegg's claim that their party has now been taken over by \"headbangers\". (See 10.03pm.) This is from a party source. As is clear from his poll ratings, the more Clegg talks, the less people listen. (Interestingly, this is an adapted version of a line that Gordon Brown once used very effectively against David Cameron.) Here's Ed Miliband on the Lib Dem announcement that they can no longer support the bedroom tax in its current form. Gavin Phillipson, a law professor at Durham University, has been tweeting about the reported Tory proposals to curb the power of the European court of human rights. And, while we're on the subject, this blog by David Allen Green is worth reading. And here is what Nick Clegg said on Call Clegg about Israel's actions in Gaza amounting to a \"disproportionate form of collective punishment\". I've taken the quote from the Press Association. I have to say now that the Israeli response appears to be deliberately disproportionate. It is amounting now to a disproportionate form of collective punishment. It is leading to a humanitarian crisis in Gaza which is just unacceptable. I would really now call on the Israeli government to stop. They have made their point. Regardless of which side you are on in this ancient bloody conflict, no-one can feel indifferent to the spectacle of this overcrowded, desperate sliver of land in Gaza, where so many thousands of people are suffering. I will always defend Israel's right to respond and to defend itself in the face of violence that aims to terrorise Israeli citizens. I have spoken out repeatedly about Israel's very legitimate demands that Hamas and others recognise Israel's right to exist, and to exist peacefully within its own borders and provide security to its own citizens. It is not in the long run in Israel's own interest to see this festering humanitarian crisis get ever worse in Gaza because all it does in the long run is incubate the next generation of violent terrorists who want to harm Israel. I've called the Foreign Office to find out if it agrees. I'll let you know when I get a response. Norman Baker, the Lib Dem Home Office minister, has infuriated the police this morning. Responding to today's crime figures, showing crimes levels in England and Wales at their lowest levels for 33 years on the crime survey measure, he said: Crime goes down year on year, so in that sense there is less for the police to do. On Twitter Baker is already getting it in the neck. From Peter Kirkham, who describes himself as a former police officer From Inspector Gadget, a police blogger From Matt Cavanagh, a former adviser to David Blunkett as home secretary From Kevin Thomas, who describes himself as a retired detective On the Today programme earlier Simon Hughes, the Lib Dem justice minister, said there was no need to change Britain's relationship with the European court of human rights because the supreme court could already disregard ECHR decisions We incorporated the [European convention on human rights] into domestic law which means that you can now argue that case before the courts in this country. And the supreme court president, this was made very clear, they have a duty to take into account the decisions of the Strasbourg court. But if they don't think they should apply them, they have a right to say 'We don't think this should be applied in the way the court in Strasbourg has said it should and they can refer the matter back to Strasbourg and ask them to think again. And the president of the supreme court and the supreme court judges are clear that they can manage perfectly well in the present legal arrangement. But Nick Herbert, the Conservative former justice minister, told the same programme that he was in favour of reform. What Britain would be saying to the Council of Europe, of which we are a party is: 'look, we want some kind of democratic override,' or we would leave but we would rather not do that. I'm not sure that there will be a lack of support actually for that position with other countries and I think we have to accept that the current system is not working properly at the moment. There are thousands of unimplemented judgments across Europe, principally in countries like Russia. I don't think there is anything to fear from saying why don't we apply the important principles of the convention of human rights that Britain had a hand in drafting, and nobody disagrees with those principles \u2013 you shan't be tortured and so on - why can't we apply those in our domestic courts? We have a supreme court now, let it be supreme and let parliament be the final arbiter and take full control over these matters. I've taken the quotes from PoliticsHome. Following the Lib Dem U-turn on the bedroom tax, Labour is now saying that it will try to stage a vote in the Commons to give the Lib Dems the chance to vote with Labour against the policy. This is from Rachel Reeves, the shadow work and pensions secretary. And this is what Nick Clegg said about the new policy on Call Clegg. He rejected claims that it amounted to a sudden U-turn, saying that the Lib Dems had been raising concerns about the bedroom tax for some time. I'm an old-fashioned person when it comes to policy, I think you should be led by the evidence. The evidence this week was quite clear that it's not working as was intended ... I've been constantly badgering away within government with the DWP to try to make sure we really stress-test this properly. We have constantly said that we want to look at how this policy is working in practice. I want to fix this. The Conservatives apparently don't - they just want to carry on making the same mistakes. Labour don't even want to deal with the problem. Labour is challenging David Cameron to publish the advice he received from Dominic Grieve, the former attorney general, about the Tory plan to curtail the power of the European court of human rights. According to the BBC, Grieve, who was sacked on Monday, described the plan as a \"legal car crash with a built-in time delay\". This is from Sadiq Khan, the shadow justice secretary. The role of the attorney general is to give honest and frank advice to the Government. He needs to speak the truth to those in power. It is now clear that David Cameron sacked Dominic Grieve as he didn't like the advice he was receiving from an experienced lawyer who knew that the Tory's half-baked plans would leave our international standing in tatters. The prime minister must as a matter of urgency publish the advice of his former attorney general so the British public can see for themselves the consequences of what they are planning. The European court of human rights is not perfect and Labour have set out the reforms we would like to make. But to walk away from the convention that secured basic fundamental rights in the aftermath of the atrocities of the second world war would be a hugely backwards step and we will never support it. Here are the key quotes from what Nick Clegg had to say about the Conservative reshuffle, and their plans to curb the power of the European court of human rights. I've taken them from the Press Association. \u2022 Clegg said the Tory \"headbangers\" had won the debate in the party and the Tories now \"want to line up with Vladimir Putin and other tyrants\". I have been completely blindsided today by hearing that the Conservatives, extraordinarily, want to line up with Vladimir Putin and other tyrants around the world by tearing up our long tradition of human rights. It shows what the real significance of this week's Conservative Party reshuffle was. It's nothing to do with gender balance, it's all to do with the death knell of the reasonable internationalism of people like Ken Clarke. I think the headbangers have now won. They are now in effect saying that the Conservative Party wants to turn its back on a long, long British tradition of upholding human rights across the world. What on earth are we going to say to the dictators in Belarus, to Vladimir Putin, if we do what the Conservatives now appear to recommend, which is that we are going to stamp our little feet and not abide by binding international human rights practices and conventions - ones, by the way, which were drafted by British human rights lawyers in the aftermath of the Second World War? I think it's really sad to see a mainstream party like that turning its back on a great long-standing British tradition of standing up internationally for human rights. It's very revealing that that is apparently the most immediate knock-on effect of removing people like Dominic Grieve and Ken Clarke, is that you've now got a much more extreme view taking root in the heart of the Conservative party. \u2022 He said the Tories were adopting a \"pick-and-choose\" approach to human rights. The moment you say that the government of the day, with a significant majority in Parliament, can drive through Parliament a rewriting of human rights disciplines, you are basically accepting that human rights provisions are not universal, that they are pick-and-choose. I have this visceral view that human rights are not there as a sort of pick-and-choose menu. You either believe in human rights or you don't. Human rights are not in the eye of the beholder. They are fundamental rights that belong to all human beings. \u2022 He said he supported some reform of the European court of human rights - but not what the Tories were proposing. We made a coalition agreement commitment - and I insisted on this personally - that said, yes of course let's look at reform of the court in Strasbourg, the European Court of Human Rights, make it more efficient, make sure that there are fewer cases clogging it up, make sure that where cases can be dealt with nationally they are dealt with nationally. But at the end the principle - and it's a really important principle to defend - is that human rights are not the plaything of national governments. Here's the prime minister, or headbanger-in-chief, as Nick Clegg might call him, meeting Jean-Claude Juncker, the new president of the European commission, in Brussels this morning. Nick Clegg certainly wasn't holding back today. With the holidays looming, he was lashing out all over the place. Here are the key lines. \u2022 Clegg says David Cameron's reshuffle showed that \"the headbangers have now won\" in the Conservative party. Citing the removal of Dominic Grieve, the attorney general, and Ken Clarke, the pro-European former justice secretary, he said the reshuffle allowed Cameron to push forward with plans reported by the BBC today to curb the power of the European court of human rights. These proposals aligned the Tories with Vladimir Putin and others not concerned about human rights, he said. \u2022 Clegg said Israel's behaviour in Gaza was \"deliberately disproprotionate and \"a deliberate form of collective punishment\". \u2022 He defended the Lib Dems decision to withdraw their support for the bedroom tax in its current form after backing it in the past. The party was responding to new evidence showing it was not working, he said. \u2022 He attacked the \"awful, clapped-out, testosterone-driven machismo\" of prime minster's questions and said women found it off-putting. I'll post an update with full quotes later. I hope I'll be able to get them from the Press Association or PoliticsHome. Normally I record the show myself, but the LBC feed on my computer was not working properly today. Q: Is it right that supermarket workers can refuse to serve people meat and alcohol? This is a story about a Muslim supermarket worker refusing to serve someone ham and alcohol. Clegg says Tesco, the supermarket involved, is right to say this is not acceptable. Every customer should be served. If there are issues with a particular member of staff, Tesco should consider redeploying him. Q: There are suggestions today the Tories will stop paying child benefit for more than four children. Clegg says Nick Ferrari will have to ask the Tories about this. The Lib Dems will announce their own plans in due course. He says he is concerned about \"the whiff of Chinese-style policy\", involving the state telling parents how many children they can have. Q: What needs to be done about the situation in Gaza? Shouldn't this be condemned as a war crime by Israel? Clegg says David Cameron was at the European council last night. It issued a strong condemnation. He says he has always defended Israel's right to defend itself. It has \"very legitimate\" demands that Hamas accepts its right to exist. But what Israel is doing now is \"deliberately disproportionate\", he says. It is a \"a deliberate form of collective punishment.\" Israel should stop the military action against Gaza, he says. It is not in Israel's interests to see this \"festering humanitarian crisis\" in Gaza get worse. Q: But what if Hama continues shelling Israel? Clegg says Israel has the right to respond. But today there is a five-hour ceasefire. He hopes that will be observed. The deliberate use of a disproportionate response by Israel needs to end, he says. Q: What did you think of the removal of Michael Gove as education secretary? Clegg says, under Gove, the Department for Education had developed a really disastrous relationship with many, many teachers across the country. It is good to start again. Q: Was his move to chief whip a demotion? Clegg says Gove has moved into a more political role. He can understand that. Gove is a very talented guy, and a fervent Conservative. Asked about the number of women in politics, Clegg says the \"awful, clapped-out, testosterone-driven machismo\" of prime minister's question puts women off. Clegg returns to the reshuffle. The removal of people like Dominci Grieve and Ken Clarke was most significant, he says. Q: Is Jeremy Wright, the new attorney general, a headbanger? Clegg says: I think the headbangers have won the argument. He says the news today about the Tory plans suggest the Tories want to \"pick and choose\" amongst human rights. But you cannot do that, he says. Human rights are universal. That is why they are called human rights. He says he supported some moves to speed up the decision of the European court of human rights, he says. But the Tory plan would be a big mistake, he says. And don't be mistaken by the claim that the supreme court would have the final say. A Tory government with a large majority could change the law, and the supreme court would have to obey that. Q: What did David Cameron say to you when you told him about this? Clegg says he has read somewhere the Tories saying the Lib Dem announcement came as a surprise. That is not correct, he says. He says he has constantly told the Tories that they needed to fix this policy. He contrasts this with the news about the Tories' plans to curb the power of the European court of human rights. He says he was \"blindsided\" by this. The Tories would want to \"line up with Vladimir Putin\" and others opposed to human rights, he says. This shows the real significance of the Tory reshuffle, he says. [It shows] the death knell of the reasonable internationalism of people like Ken Clarke. I think the headbangers have now won. The first question is about the bedroom tax. Q: I called you a couple of weeks ago about this. Now you have changed your stance. Isn't this too little too late? Nick Clegg says what changed this week was that the government published a report showing it was not working. So now the Lib Dem policy is only to penalise people offered a smaller home who refuse to move. The Lib Dems would also ensure disabled adults are treated in the same way as disabled children. Clegg says he thinks politicians should be led by the evidence. Q: What was the new evidence? Clegg says it was a report commissioned by the DWP. He says he was going to wait for the evidence. He wanted to see the evidence, objectively done. In politics, sometimes things do not work as well as you expect. He thinks that, given this is not working, it should be fixed. The Tories do not want to fix it. And Labour do not want to address the problem of a shortage of social housing, and people living in homes that are larger than they need. He says the Lib Dems would not let new tenants get housing benefit to move into new social housing with more bedrooms than they need. Nick Clegg is hosting his Call Clegg phone-in this morning. It's the last one I will be covering until September (don't all cheer at once) and there are two stories around this morning that may liven it up. \u2022 The BBC is reporting new details of the Conservative party's plans to curtail the influence of the European court of human rights. \u2022 The Lib Dems have formally announced they can no longer support the bedroom tax in its current form. I'll be covering Call Clegg in detail. After that, there is quite a lot around. Here is the agenda for the day. Morning: David Cameron is having breakfast with Jean-Claude Juncker in Brussels. 9am: Nick Clegg hosts his Call Clegg phone-in. 10am: Sir Jeremy Heywood, the cabinet secretary, gives evidence to the Commons political and constitutional reform committee. 10.30am: William Hague, the new leader of the Commons, takes business questions for the first time. After 11am: Peers resume there debate on the emergency surveillance bill. Around 11.15am: Theresa Villiers, the Northern Ireland secretary, publishes Lady Justice Hallett's review of the letters sent to IRA fugitives, \"on-the-runs \" (OTTs) telling them they would not face prosecution As usual, I will also be flagging up any breaking political news, posting summaries with a round-up of all the day's developments, and highlighting the most interesting political articles on the web. If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.",
  "title": "Clegg says 'headbangers have now won' in Tory party after reshuffle: Politics live blog",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/liberaldemocrats",
    "technology/internet",
    "world/surveillance",
    "politics/lords",
    "technology/data-protection"
  ],
  "lead": "Andrew Sparrow's rolling coverage of all the day's political developments as they happen, including Nick Clegg hosting his Call Clegg phone-in and peers debating the emergency surveillance bill",
  "id": "politics/blog/2014/jul/17/nick-clegg-hosts-his-call-clegg-phone-in-politics-live-blog",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}