{
  "content": "An edition of the newspaper USA Today last week chose to supplement all its front-page stories with Facebook's new \"emoji reactions\"*. Of course, the internet's response was largely one of horrified bemusement (currently we lack an emoji for \"horrified bemusement\" so, apologies readers, you're going to have to do the hard work yourselves by reading the words the old-fashioned way). The general consensus was that the juxtaposition of a crying face emoji next to the headline \"US hero of French train attack stabbed\" was crass, jarring and borderline offensive. The implication that readers would be unsure how to feel about tragic or distressing news stories without the help of a supplementary emoji was rightly decried as patronising. Here, the lack of sufficient complexity of the emoji pictorial language was laid bare. Plus, they looked very strange in newsprint. Most people are used to seeing emoji \u2013 or \"picture words\" by now. Far from being a visual language purely in use by teenagers, they have been adopted by users of all ages (including Islamic State recruiters \u2013 make of that what you will) as a way of adding context to written electronic messages, \"softening\" words which might otherwise be misconstrued, or sometimes replacing them altogether (as an excellent New York magazine essay on the rise of the emoji notes, both Moby Dick and R Kelly's Trapped in the Closet have been translated into emoji). There's no doubt that they are useful for some purposes, such as showing someone that what you have said is in jest, or expressing a desire for an avocado. But in others, such as in the case of USA Today, their emotional limitations are laid bare. It's something to do with their inherent ridiculousness; while they work well when it comes to adding nuance to positive statements, when paired with sentences describing sadness, or terror, or pain, they remove it. A case in point would be the time I saw an Instagram upload of a wall of human skulls, beneath which was the hashtag #killingfields, and a sad face emoji. Naturally, all of this will have people asking themselves whether the emoji represents the end point of human expression; the demise of literacy; the death of the sentence as we know it. When asked what the hell he was thinking, David Callaway, the editor-in-chief of USA Today, said: \"Social media and its icons are becoming a dominant form of communication in our world. We wanted to show what they would be like if transferred to print.\" (God awful, is the answer.) Is this, you might ask, the future of journalism? Certainly, as print begins to flail helplessly on its deathbed, we are increasingly seeing a blurring of the lines between social media and journalism online. In some cases, this is a positive development \u2013 citizen journalism has changed the way news is reported, and well-moderated comment sections can add insight to the articles above them. In contrast, the emoji and its emotional limitations just look sinister alongside news reporting. I first came across the emoji story on a creepy, hilarious Facebook group called Boring Dystopia, which is one of my favourite things on the internet at the moment. A sort of humorous plea for the return of civilisation, it rails against the corporatisation of our culture and the appropriation of our emotions to sell products, with users nominating billboards with slogans such as \"is accountancy the new yoga?\" and headlines such as \"Japan will open a fully robotic lettuce farm by 2017\". Telling people how to feel about news reporting via emoji fits perfectly into this Orwellian vision of a future Britain in which emotions are dictated by corporations and psychological autonomy is discouraged. I'm not an emoji refusenik (though I'll admit that my phone is so old I'm unable to send them). Visual languages are nothing new, as anyone familiar with emoticons or wingdings will no doubt be aware. Pictograms have existed for thousands of years, preceding the written word. My autistic brother uses a system called Pecs as an alternative method of communication, and they are not dissimilar to emoji. Despite the popularity of these cartoonish faces, I'm not too worried about the demise of the written word \u2013 the way long reads have taken off and the surprise sales figures for tree books implies that readers are still craving verbal stimulus. But I would offer a word of caution regarding tragedy, bereavement, genocide, terrorism, misery and anguish, especially to those growing up in a emoji-saturated world: when you can't find the words, sometimes it's better to say nothing at all. * Sadly these do not include the face you make when you realised you paid more tax than Facebook last year.",
  "title": "When things are so bad you have no words, don't reach for an emoji | Rhiannon Lucy Cosslett",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/emoji",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/us-press-publishing",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": "Although a well-placed emoji can add nuance to positive statements, adding them to tragic news stories, as USA Today did, just looks sinister",
  "id": "commentisfree/2015/oct/13/emoji-news-stories-usa-today",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}