{
  "content": "Andy Coulson was right, of course. When a spokesman needs a spokesman, he also needs to find the exit, fast. The story about the story-maker wasn't going away \u2013 because the Guardian kept pursuing it with implacable zest, because assorted lawyers with great financial expectations joined in, and because revelations just kept rolling along. Enter, last week, a new supreme spokesman, Simon Greenberg, at Wapping, with a desperate brief to clear the decks, stop the PR rot, make a fresh start. Goodbye, Andy. No coincidence, surely. If the News of the World, peddling a frail tale about one rogue reporter, couldn't staunch the flow of allegations and collateral damage to Rupert Murdoch's business prospects, then any change of PR policy was bound to suck Coulson deeper into the mire. While he stayed in post, spinning at David Cameron's side, politics as well as ethical murk drove the affair on. Take him away and \u2013 maybe \u2013 it would all begin to go away. That won't happen easily. There are too many questions \u2013 about Scotland Yard's \"investigation\" of the hacking, for starters \u2013 for one resignation to spell finis. But there is, for the moment, a brief pause and drawing of breath \u2013 and good reason to stress a few things that tend to get lost in a media melee. One (as Michael Winner might say) is that Coulson is only a spokesman, dear. Graduates of the Alastair Campbell Academy of Reputation Inflation have made political PRs seem very important to journalists (as opposed to corporate PRs, whom they often think to be of no importance at all), but the fact is that Coulson didn't make David Cameron PM any more than Ed Miliband's own hiring from Wapping, Tom Baldwin, will seal the deal for him. Proportion, proportion. Another thing, because journalism itself matters, is to keep timeframes in focus. The phone-hacking fuelling so much current fury is very old news. It died away in 2006, after the information commissioner issued a notably fierce report about private eyes and privacy. It stopped dead in 2007, when that rogue News of the World reporter and a private detective went to prison. Nobody has produced fresh evidence to challenge the Press Complaints Commission's belief that a dodgy era is over and done with. That doesn't wipe the slate clean, of course; but it does argue for a little perspective. Is hacking into people's phone messages better or worse than \"blagging\" your way deep into their bank accounts or medical records? The mess of our law at the turn of the century dealt with such matters via two different acts. Blagging was a contagion (the information commissioner found more than 30 newspapers and magazines guilty, with the Mail and Mirror, not the News of the World, top of the shop); hacking, often by the same private eyes, fell into a separate category only because a separate law proscribed it. So should Scotland Yard have pursued the 58 reporters in the Daily Mail newsroom who hired a blagging eye? Or the 45 reporters at the Mirror (then edited by Piers Morgan)? Or the four Observer staffers who set dozens of inquiries running? You can understand, perhaps, why there wasn't a massive rush for justice. You can also see why a new CPS trawl over all the evidence the Yard kept back is necessary. Lines (as Greenberg might add) do need to be drawn. They're needed not just because those who fear the power of News International demand them, but because journalism as a whole has lessons to learn \u2013 and because lawyers negotiating million-pound payouts for afflicted celebrities like Max Clifford aren't necessarily heroes either. Drink up and brace up in the Second Chance saloon (ex-proprietor, A Coulson).",
  "title": "It's not just Andy Coulson:  newspapers need a second chance too",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "media/andy-coulson",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/press-intrusion"
  ],
  "lead": "Peter Preston: While the News of the World was hacking phones, dozens of journalists at other papers were blagging their way into bank accounts and medical records. The PM's former spin doctor isn't the only one who ought to hope for a fresh start",
  "id": "media/2011/jan/23/andy-coulson-newspapers-second-chance",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}