{
  "content": "Today I feel like my favourite ever TV character: Lexi Featherston, a filthy eyed, madly gesticulating Sex and the City cameo played by Kristen Johnston, who, at an arse-clenched Upper East Side cocktail do, climbs up onto a window ledge for a smoke, and rants at the Chanel-suited bores: \"This used to be the most exciting city in the world. New York is over. O.V.E.R. Over. Whatever happened to fun? I'm so bored I could die.\" And with one tipsy slip, she falls out the window. Dead. This replayed in my mind the moment I read the miserable news that the high court has ruled that Sally Bercow's nudge-nudge tweet (\"Why is Lord McAlpine trending? *innocent face*) is libelous. Mr Justice Tugendhat decreed that the now infamous message falsely implied that the claimant was a paedophile who was guilty of sexually abusing boys living in care. Thus, from May 24 2013, Twitter's cheeky impulsiveness must be replaced with caution. Told off, it will become a no-smoking pub, a meat-free sausage, a city without any sex. Fun has fallen out of a 10th-story window. Splat. Of course, because the ramifications of this ruling have yet to sink in, Twitter playfulness was still thrashing and twitching this morning. \"Why is Sally Bercow trending? *libel face*\", joked about 78 people in tandem. I love them all. But in future, everyone had better put their innuendos, their spirit, their mischievousness \u2013 the very things that keep Cameron's Britain from becoming entirely unbearable \u2013 in a safe marked, \"KEEP OUT UNTIL MY HEART STOPS\". Yes, we have had court overreactions to social media before. The so-called Twitter joke trial in particular was a fine example of using a blowtorch to dry nail varnish. At least that tweet was direct and explicit \u2013 a threat, albeit in jest \u2013 to blow up Robin Hood airport. And the two Bristolians yanked out of their beds in the small hours this morning were arrested on suspicion of \"inciting racial or religious hatred\" \u2013 a crime that is surely worthy of investigation. Did Bercow's seven measly words imply something? Possibly. Possibly not. Was she responsible for the initial and gravely erroneous linking of Lord McAlpine to childhood sexual abuse? No she was not. Had it not been for the final two words her question would be deemed innocent. But by actually writing the word \"innocent\", Tugendhat was able to judge her stage directions to be the opposite, as the English are known for their sarcasm. And so an ever-decreasing spiral of irony ensues, the bottom of which is not only a death knell for social media sarcasm but a joylessness so profound I may have to watch endless mpegs of babies laughing at absolutely nothing to fend off clinical depression. The inference of sarcasm from the refreshingly rebellious wife of the Speaker could only be drawn in the full knowledge that Britons run on such humour like midwesterns do corn oil. As a British homosexual I can scarcely get dressed of a morning without at least one innuendo. That Twitter \u2013 a universe of mucking about, the great 21st-century sandpit \u2013 will now have to rein it in, tamed by the knowledge that even a possible teeny-tiny suggestion could land you in court, is more sobering than 85 espressos from a coffee chain that doesn't pay corporation tax. Sally Bercow may have agreed to pay a settlement to Lord McAlpine, but the high court has ensured the British tweeting public will be paying in fun, irony and innuendo forever.",
  "title": "Sally Bercow's Lord McAlpine libel: Twitter is over. O.V.E.R. | Patrick Strudwick",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/sally-bercow",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "law/defamation-law",
    "media/medialaw",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "Patrick Strudwick: The great modern sandpit will now have to rein it in, tamed by knowledge that the whiff of a suggestion could land you in court",
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/may/24/sally-bercow-lord-mcalpine-libel-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}