{
  "content": "The Australian Women's Weekly has been bombarded with angry comments from readers after publishing an eight-page interview and glamorous photo shoot with the former lover of murderer Gerard Baden-Clay. The August issue of Australia's highest selling magazine features an in-depth interview by associate editor Caroline Overington with Toni McHugh, who was paid for the interview in a joint deal between Nine's 60 Minutes and the Weekly. In the magazine, McHugh, who is photographed lying seductively on a rug, describes herself as Australia's Monica Lewinsky and says she plans to write a book about her experience. Earlier this week, Overington wrote on Facebook that the story immediately attracted 600 comments and 98% of them had been negative. McHugh was professionally styled by the magazine and questioned about her four-year relationship with Baden-Clay, who was convicted last month of murdering his wife, Allison Baden-Clay. The publication of the interview coincided with Friday's Strive to be Kind Day, organised in Allison's memory. Brisbane city council was lighting the Story Bridge yellow in her honour and people were asked to wear yellow ribbons in memory of the mother of three's kind and generous nature. The editor-in-chief of the Weekly, Helen McCabe, has not responded to questions from Guardian Australia about the decision to publish the story. Belinda Claire was one of hundreds to post on the Weekly's Facebook page: \"How horribly ironic that today is Strive to be Kind day in honour of Allison Baden-Clay and you release your magazine with a big slap in the face to all those close to Allison and her family. Completely gobsmacked as to how this lady is now being portrayed as a victim.\" Julie Milner wrote: \"Disgusted that a so called 'iconic' Australian brand could give this woman more publicity. Seems she displays the same narcissistic characteristics Baden Clay did. Shame on you Helen McCabe.\" Sarah Hennessy wrote: \"Because Allison's daughters haven't gone through enough they now have to listen to their father's mistress talk about how she planned a future with them after actively seeking to break up their family. Super tasteful AWW. Nice that you painted the predator as a victim. And gave her a makeover. And a sympathetic headline. And a pay check.' The magazine was accused of deleting its original post about the article as well as of removing hundreds of comments critical of the decision to publish it. Judy Frenette: \"I see this page has removed the post about Baden Clay's mistress, because of the comments and outrage from honest Australians. How one sided, double standards, they want Australians to buy their magazine every week, but don't allow honest opinions, if they are not in their favour , they remove them, just deplorable, so unjust.\" Many readers have said they were disappointed with the magazine after it was applauded last month for featuring bushfire victim Turia Pitt on the cover. Renae Corbett: \"After the high of the incredibly inspirational Turia Pitt you go to the low of Toni McHugh, how could you get it sooo wrong.\"",
  "title": "Baden-Clay lover Toni McHugh's Women's Weekly spread causes outrage",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "australia-news/australia-news"
  ],
  "lead": "Australian Women's Weekly deluged with complaints over interview and photoshoot on Gerard Baden-Clay's former lover",
  "id": "media/2014/aug/01/baden-clay-toni-mchugh-womens-weekly-outrage",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}