{
  "content": "Leading figures from the newspaper and broadcast journalism industries fear that proposals put forward by the justice secretary, Jack Straw, to open up the family court system to greater public scrutiny could be \"seriously compromised\" ahead of their implementation next week. Industry concerns centre on proceedings involving the application of the 1989 Children Act, or those to do with the maintenance and upbringing of a child, after it emerged that they could remain subject to an earlier act of parliament and still be subject to reporting restrictions. From Monday, journalists are expecting to be allowed to attend and report on all divorce, custody and care proceedings, unless specifically excluded, following an announcement by Straw in December to open the process up to greater public scrutiny. However, there are already fears that the new guidelines issued to courts and journalists will do little to change the status quo and the law will continue to ban virtually all reporting rather than accept journalists in family courts as \"part of the landscape\", as Straw suggested when announcing the change. This latest development may do little to assure sceptics that a real change to the current system will emerge. Bob Satchwell, executive director of the Society of Editors, wrote to Straw yesterday to highlight concerns that the application of aspects of the 1960 Administration of Justice Act could, in effect, mean cases will continue to be held \"in private\", despite earlier assurance to open up the family court system to the media in an attempt to make it more transparent and accountable. Satchwell wrote in his letter that Ministry of Justice officials had claimed family court proceedings would remain subject to the 1960 Act and expressed concern that clause S.12 renders anyone reporting on proceedings falling under the legislation in contempt of court. He said this would subvert the plan to start allowing the media to highlight cases of public concern in the family courts. \"In our view this [MoJ officials'] interpretation of the application of S.12 is wrong \u2013 we believe that, just as with youth courts, the media's attendance as representatives of the public immediately negates any 'private' status attaching to the proceedings,\" Satchwell wrote, on behalf of the Newspaper Society, which represents 1,300 titles across the UK, the Press Association and ITN, as well as his own organisation. \"The public have no right to attend youth court proceedings \u2013 but there is no question of them being considered 'private' in the procedural sense of the word.\" Satchwell said that, if implemented, this would be a \"disastrous outcome\" and one which the government had not initially intended. He called on the Straw to \"make appropriate legislative changes\" to remove the S.12 clause, should it prove a stumbling block, and went on to outline other \"serious concerns\" in relation to the implementation of the new policy. \"We cannot emphasise too highly that if this interpretation is correct, then its effect will be to nullify the entire purpose of the past several years' discussions and the government's stated aim of openness and accountability,\" Satchwell wrote. \"The great majority of the very cases in which public concern is most acute are those which involve children, and particularly state intervention in children's care and upbringing. If the interpretation above is correct these proceedings would not be reportable and effectively there would be no change at all.\" A Ministry of Justice spokesman said it was proposed that the media could attend family court hearings from April, not that reporting restrictions could be lifted. \"To do so [lift restrictions] we need to change the law through Parliament. We said we would legislate to revise reporting restrictions as soon as parliamentary time allows. We are actively seeking opportunities to do so,\" the spokesman added. \"The Justice Secretary is clear that while there must be a balance between the need to protect children in family court cases, the aim of the revised reporting restrictions will be to open up the family courts to a greater degree of transparency. This is in line with his overall aim of opening up the justice system,\" he said. \"We said the media would be able to discuss in a more informed way how the system works. We said that until legislation revising reporting restrictions is in place, reporters will be able to report sufficient outlines of cases that will allow their readers to understand the gist of proceedings without identifying those involved.\" \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. \u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Family courts reform 'compromised', news industry warns Jack Straw",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/press-freedom",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/television",
    "media/media",
    "society/childprotection",
    "society/society",
    "politics/jackstraw",
    "politics/politics",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Leading figures fear that reporting restrictions will remain in many cases. By Oliver Luft",
  "id": "media/2009/apr/22/family-courts-openness-press-jack-straw",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}