{
  "content": "There are a few shockingly stupid people out there, not many more so than the juror in Burnley who asked her Facebook friends to help her decide how to vote in the jury room on a trial involving sexual assault and child abduction. Then the was the juror in the American state of Maryland whose consultation of Wikipedia on a matter of scientific terminology led to a murder conviction being overturned. In one so-called \"Google mistrial\" last year, an embarrassed Floridian juror confessed to conduting his own internet research during a large federal drugs case, only for the court to then discover that eight of the other jurors had been doing exactly the same thing. Nor is it just jurors. A North Carolina judge befriended on Facebook one of the lawyers in a trial last year so that they could chat about the case. Additionally there's the tweeting magistrate of Telford, who quit his job after being found to have put online such portentous drivel while adjudicating cases as, \"What a day! Ludlow courthouse is ancient. We sit in the Gods passing sentence on the criminal fraternity.\" If you'd been in front of him and then found a tweet explaining the reasoning behind the judgment, you might not be impressed. At this point I'd like to say that if you're reading this because you've Googled me at some time in the future and I'm on a trial you're deciding, you're a muppet, but I'm a reliable lawyer whose poor set-upon client/upstanding arm of the state is to be believed by you and your peers. The desire to look up information is understandable. Trials rarely hear the full life histories of the parties, and often exclude out of fairness the previous convictions of those giving evidence. At times a jury may be asked to leave the room so a point of law can be argued without fear of swaying the jury or exposing them to information which is deemed to be excluded. I go on IMDb on my phone when I'm considering a DVD in the shop, so I can see how the thought of jumping on the internet to look for news stories involving the people in your trial is a very easy one. But there is a difference between my desire not to waste an evening watching Wanted and jurors searching maps, news stories or databases of publicly compiled forensic jargon. It is that the rules of evidence and the contempt of court laws are there to try and prevent an uneven playing field between the prosecution and the defence. The separation between the investigative and judicial branches of the state must be maintained to keep errors to their lowest possible level, to provide checks on investigative procedure. Part of the problem must also be the failure of the system to adequately explain these rules and the reasons for them, and to put the intricate law and sometimes complicated facts in cases to the jury in a digestible format. This week's study revealing that two-thirds of jurors do not understand the directions given to them by judges might well explain the temptation, in the face of a wholly unusual and imposing legal environment, to look up the answers, rather than put up a hand and ask for more help. There is also the intrinsically human desire to seek validation of one's views, to read the news reports to see if your reading of the witnesses and the facts is more widely held. To this extent the internet risks becoming another arena of litigation, and crisis PR firms might be part of a broader strategy employed in, say, a libel trial. That is why \"contempt\" laws on the reporting of trials exist to prevent prejudice in the case by external noise, and why it was so dismal to see politicians jeopardising the trials of their fellow members by talking earlier this month so specifically about the cases in public. The internet can offer nothing of benefit to those who hear and decide the facts of criminal cases in coming to a just conclusion. Jurors must face stricter punishment for their amateur investigations which sometimes cost the state huge amounts of money in mistrials. Other participants in the justice system must do more to clarify, and therefore quell the temptation to seek help on MySpace. Unless we wish to do away with trial by jury, or the internet, the answer is to make it clear that the two don't mix well at all.",
  "title": "Trial by internet | Rupert Myers",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/wikipedia",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "Rupert Myers: Websites such as Wikipedia and Facebook are encroaching on the legal world and creating chaos in the courtroom",
  "id": "commentisfree/2010/feb/17/jurors-trial-internet-use",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}