{
  "content": "The moment Scottish economist Angus Deaton was announced as the winner of the Nobel prize in economics, everyone did a double take. Not because it's an undeserved win \u2013 Deaton is best known for his work promoting welfare and reducing poverty \u2013 but because some people, for a second, thought perhaps actor and comedian Angus Deayton had won the prize instead. There's a big difference between the two. Deaton, as well as being a Nobel prizewinner, is the Dwight D Eisenhower professor of economics and international affairs at the Woodrow Wilson school of public and international affairs at Princeton. Deayton, on the other hand, was once the presenter of satirical news show Have I Got News For You, leaving in 2002 amid tabloid allegations about his private life. He has also starred in One Foot in the Grave and Waterloo Road. But, inevitably, Twitter kept making the same joke about the Deaton/Deayton confusion, especially the latter's apparent career change. Some began tweeting an unverified and probably fake Angus Deayton Twitter account offering their congratulations: One trickster briefly updated Deayton's Wikipedia page to say he had won a Nobel prize. Except he hasn't, as people pointed out over and over again. Some people got tired of the joke pretty quickly. But in case you are still confused: the man in the middle is Angus Deayton and, no, he did not win the Nobel prize in economics. 6pm update: Comedian and author David Baddiel has posted this image of a man receiving some important news. What could it all mean?",
  "title": "Angus Deaton or Angus Deayton? Nobel prize win confusion sparks joke flurry",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "tv-and-radio/angus-deayton",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/economics",
    "science/nobelprizes",
    "business/business",
    "world/nobel-economics-prize"
  ],
  "lead": "Twitter found the funny side of economist's Nobel prize win",
  "id": "tv-and-radio/2015/oct/12/angus-deaton-v-angus-deayton-nobel-prize-win-sparks-twitter-joke-flurry",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}