{
  "content": "I'm stuck down the rabbit hole of Facebook, and I don't know how to get out. To the east is a blood-sucking vampire, threatening to take away my time and alienate my friends. To the west, an ambiguous spectre familiar in the hazy light of recollection. The emaciated shadow of a long-lost acquaintance. He keeps poking me. Why won't he stop? Behind me, towards the south, is a path littered with crumpled-up paper and inkless quills. That way lies the end of connectivity and a fruitless search through the fields of eBay for out-of-date typewriter ink. Straight ahead, towards the north, I can see only light. It's drawing me forward, promising possibility. But that direction is plagued with obstacles: endless login screens, pithy conversations on public walls, unwieldy friends lists, carpal tunnel syndrome. So which way do I go? If I go towards the vampire, I'm sure to end up on a Homeric journey past rocks and hard places, dodging group requests and useless applications that will drain my resources and energy. If I turn left, I'll end up wallowing in retrospect and spoiled nostalgia, tripping over long-gone relationships and pining for the body I had when I was 18. If I head backwards, away from Facebook nirvana, I'll lose my footing and fall out of step with the trends of the playful web. I'll have to fight my way across a directionless void, missing important early adopter signals. But if I embrace my lot and run self-actualised down the yellow brick road of social software possibility, I will be forced to do it all over again when the next web 2.0 wagon comes to town condemning myself to an eternity of an extraordinary loss of productivity. What's this? Like in all good games, there's another option. Out of the blackness above me looms an ivory tower so tall it appears to teeter over as it stretches into the distance. I don't yet see a way in, but perhaps if I reach into my Lara Croft-style, Tardis-like rucksack and put on the red ruby slippers I brought from the last web-based application I found myself in and click my heels I might land in centre of the hallowed halls of academia, safe for another three years of close readings of the Facebook rabbit hole. I'll be surrounded by vampires and social connectivity, historical insight and the promise of possibility. But before I can decide, I look around me again and the scene has disappeared. The only thing I can see is an angry gnome with a threatening look on his face and something sharp and shiny in his left hand. Social software has me trapped. I don't think I'm ever destined to come out again. \u00b7 If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails to tech@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Gamesblog: I'm in a maze of twisty social sites, all alike",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/games",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "Aleks Krotoski: The only thing I can see is an angry gnome with something sharp and shiny in his left hand.",
  "id": "technology/2007/aug/16/guardianweeklytechnologysection.games3",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}