{
  "content": "Imagine sitting down, today, to plan and build a new news organisation for the 21st century. What would be its founding principles? How would it fund its journalism? And how would it fully exploit and integrate itself with technology that will determine how it is distributed, how it communicates, and it relates to and empowers its readers? There have been armies of news sites born of the web but, as even the most recent acquisition deal \u2013 of the Huffington Post by AOL \u2013 shows, the primary motive is to create businesses, rather than a journalistic organisation serving the public and holding power to account. The volume of news available to us now might make this seem a healthy period for journalism, but that's not quite true. From oligarchs and tycoons to content farms of low-quality derivative blogging \u2013 search engine-optimised to the point of incomprehension \u2013 the struggle to get noticed and to turn attention into profit invariably takes priority over service, or quality. This is a very good moment to step off the treadmill, to detach from the established businesses we operate in and rethink what we do. For the Guardian, the WikiLeaks stories have fulfilled at least part of the promise of online, connected journalism. The success of those stories was down to collaboration, to the skill, expertise and persistence of our investigative reporters (who are most definitely not instructed to write at least five stories a day) but, crucially, made possible by collaborating with WikiLeaks \u2013 a principled and well-supported site with a committed following. We've all enjoyed the backstories to this episode, but the principle, and the experience, has made a real impact at the Guardian. A serious news organisation starting up today would have to be built around the web, and would benefit from not having the baggage of a legacy business. It would be international-facing, with diversified products to generate revenue from conferences to bespoke print products. Storytelling for screens would be at the core of this business, with teams of technologists and journalists working together to explore and exploit a balance of speed and breaking news; discussion, response and exchange; collaboration and analysis; and long-form reflection and investigation. The Guardian, along with most major news organisations, is already heading in this direction, but there is still very far to go. It seems a luxury that the Guardian's main objective is journalism, not profit, but I do believe that is what gives us the freedom to experiment and try to rethink how a news organisation should be structured. Partnerships and collaboration, in the spirit of openness, are absolutely key to this structure. That applies internally as much as externally, and was the starting point for the Guardian Hacks SXSW that kicks off this weekend. Even though they are only a floor apart, there are plenty in our editorial teams who hardly know the technology staff. I think that's wrong, and that journalists, as craftspeople, need to start understanding that developers are creatives in their own right; the root of the word \"technology\", tekhne, is Greek for art or craft. What kind of project could we create where journalists and developers would have the time and space to work together? The SouthbySouthWest festival seemed a good place to start \u2013 a very Guardian combination of music, film and technology in the quirky Texan city of Austin \u2013 so our team could work together experimenting with new ways of covering the visionary speakers, the creative talent and the vast, technologically intrepid audience. We approached Google, who agreed to sponsor the project for its objective of exploring innovative forms of journalism, and set up a hack day \u2013 open to all \u2013 so that anyone and everyone could devise and build their own ideas for cool tools to play with at SXSW. Six months after those ideas first surfaced, we're about to kick off with the Guardian Hacks SXSW hack day tomorrow. We have more than 120 developers, designers and journalists coming, and as diverse as Norway's dt.no and ostlendingen.no to Le Monde and La Repubblica, to Sweden's Spotify. And Media Molecule \u2013 the Little Big Planet team who are coming all the way from Guildford. I wrote more about all of this yesterday. No tectonic shift is going to happen to the foundations of any news organisation overnight. But our patterns of behaviour, our processes and our expectations will shift slowly if we can push ourselves in small steps, and use our imagination to define what the future should and could be. There's a whole future of news to create, and I hope that by giving ourselves some time and space to explore, we will be just a little more inspired to do that.",
  "title": "Guardian Hacks SXSW: exploring innovative forms of journalism",
  "lead": "Jemima Kiss: Developers, designers and journalists from around the world will gather this weekend to share ideas and create new tools",
  "tags": [
    "technology/guardian-hacks-sxsw",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "culture/sxsw",
    "culture/festivals",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/pda/2011/feb/11/guardian-hacks-sxsw",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}