{
  "content": "Aphasia writer My wife has had aphasia since her stroke, and she often struggles to get more than the first one or two letters of a word exactly right. We're using Open Office's predictive text, which helps, but is there a better solution? Tim Jones JS: There are several programs that are designed for people with physical impairments or severe dyslexia that should be more useful than Open Office's predictive text or Microsoft Office's AutoComplete. Two that are often used in British schools are Don Johnston's Co:Writer, \u00a3149 and Penfriend Ltd's Penfriend, \u00a390. Penfriend will predict the next word and offer a menu selection without the user typing even one letter. Another option is VK TypeHelp, described as an \"adaptive predictive typing assistant\". I would look at Co:Writer first as it is the one listed on the Aphasia Now website. Otherwise, I would suggest contacting a local aphasia self-help group and finding out what they recommend. Speakability may be able to put you in touch with one (email speakability@speakability.org.uk or you can call free on 080 8808 9572). Protecting your privacy I've come across a few news items recently re privacy issues, such as Phorm, and perhaps of more concern, the proposals suggested for government legislation to allow the monitoring of internet traffic. What can we as individuals do to protect our privacy? Peter McCutcheon There are ways to nullify the attempt to use Phorm for advertising purposes, such as the Firephorm add-on for Firefox (http://bit.ly/aj0084). However, the best choice is to change your ISP to one that does not use Phorm or any similar service. Another way to avoid Phorm \u2013 and to protect your privacy \u2013 is to access the internet via an encrypted proxy server. If your datastream is encrypted, it doesn't matter if your ISP uses DPI (deep packet inspection). A search for secure anonymous browsing will find plenty of services. It's about five years since I looked into this area, but the sites I tried at the time, such as Megaproxy and IDzap, are still going. I found Megaproxy's paid-for service worked best, but there's a good list of options at IP Info (http://bit.ly/aj0085). However, bear in midn that, although your ISP won't be able to see what you are doing, the firm that decodes your datastream and accesses the net on your behalf can. Anonymous internet services usually set up a \"clientless VPN\" (virtual private network) service that works through the web browser, so check if they also encrypt email. Lots of businesses now use VPNs for secure access across the net, including the Guardian. Anonymous surfing services often make you agree not to use them to do anything illegal, send spam etc. Some also prevent you from downloading files using automated downloaders. Tracking disks The Windows Task Manager provides information on CPU and memory use. Is there a way of analysing disk use? It is sometimes alarming to see the disk light coming on for no apparent reason. George Halahan JS: Sysinternals has a page full of free programs, File and Disk Utilities, but the results from drive analysis programs are usually too detailed for ordinary use. With XP I use AnVir Task Manager Free, which tells you everything you need to know about what is happening in Windows. It puts three meters in the Systray, and hovering over those shows CPU use, memory use and \"disk load\". You can also view the details in a spreadsheet-type table. Vista, however, has a great Computer Management Utility. Run the Windows Task Manager, go to the Performance tab and click the Resource Monitor button. This shows CPU, memory, disk and network use. The disk section tells you what's reading from and writing to the drive. Windows for netbooks At some stage, usually later in a computer's life, there is no alternative to a complete OS reinstall. I can't see how this can be possibly be done for netbooks running Windows XP, even if rescue CDs were provided. H Johnson JS: Do a web search and you will find that plenty of people have found ways to install Windows XP, Vista etc on netbooks without a CD drive, and there is an example at Liliputing. However, you can reinstall the operating system from an external hard drive used for backups, and many netbook buyers will already have one for their laptop or desktop PC. Some users have or will buy a USB CD-R drive to install software and do backups. Otherwise, times have changed since Windows 95/98/SE benefited from a reinstallation after 18-24 months. I have a 1983 laptop and a 1985 desktop running Windows XP Pro, and both are still fine. Backchat \u2022 Johan van Slooten wanted either a DAB or a Wi-Fi radio for full stereo, and I suggested Revo's iBlik RadioStation. Tom Wilson says that he avoided the cost by connecting his digital Freeview box to his hi-fi. Freeview has a good range of UK stations, but no internet radio stations. \u2022 Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor, at jack.schofield@theguardian.com. \u2022 This article was amended on Friday 29 January 2010, following this correction published on 17 January 2009. We said wrongly that the software created by behavioural advertising company Phorm \"involves rerouting all traffic from the ISPs that adopt it, whether users opt out or not\". In the implementation of the system being considered by UK ISPs, users will be able to choose not to participate. Phorm advises that if the system is adopted, some initial processing by the ISP on the ISP's servers will be required to establish that a user has opted out, but the traffic will not reach Phorm equipment. No unique ID for the user will be created and no information about their browsing will be analysed. This has been corrected.",
  "title": "Ask Jack: January 8 2009",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/microsoft",
    "technology/windows",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/netbooks",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Aphasia writer | Protecting your privacy | Tracking disks | Windows for netbooks | Backchat",
  "id": "technology/2009/jan/08/microsoft-privacy-jack-schofield-ask-jack",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}