{
  "content": "TalkTalk has displayed a disregard for the safety of its customers' data, according to security experts who say the telecoms firm has mishandled its response to being hacked. The attack happened on Wednesday, and TalkTalk informed the police the same day but only alerted the UK's data protection watchdog on Thursday afternoon, leading to criticism from several experts. Justin Harvey, chief security officer of Fidelis, said: \"It shouldn't have taken the police to get involved for TalkTalk to own up to the problem. In the meantime their customers' identities have been exposed. \"The sheer number of people that will be affected by this breach, in a personal and business capacity, means that it will be one of the defining cyber-attacks of 2015.\" After being slow to notify customers initially, TalkTalk then leapt into action, with its chief executive, Dido Harding, giving a series of media interviews. The company also revealed it had received a ransom demand while simultaneously failing to inform customers what precisely had been stolen. Past mistakes TalkTalk has been hit by several security breaches in the last year. In December 2014 the company saw customers hit by India-based scam calls after a data breach. It happened gain in again in February, when TalkTalk customers were subjected to further scams, despite the company describing the information stolen in the breach as limited and non-sensitive. TalkTalk Mobile customers were also affected by an attack on Carphone Warehouse systems in which the personal information of up to 2.4 million customers was stolen. The sheer number of breaches raised concerns, David Emm, principal security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, said. \"What is worrying is that this is the third time TalkTalk has been compromised this year, with no apparent changes to their internal policies and security strategies.\" TalkTalk has been accused of several security failings, including a lack of compliance with web security standards for credit card payments and data handling, as well as network security which allowed hackers to run riot across the company's systems. Paul German, who is the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) vice-president of Certes Networks, said: \"If TalkTalk had cryptographically segmented its security system into predefined and clearly understood fragments, the breach would have been more manageable, instead of system wide.\" Lack of preparation for attacks TalkTalk said a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack \u2013 one that overwhelms a website with traffic, taking it offline \u2013 was used as a smokescreen for the attack. It is a practice that a telecoms company such as TalkTalk should have been aware of and was becoming increasingly common, according to Dave Larson, chief technology officer of DDoS prevention specialist Corero Network Security. \"More frequently, theft of personal data comes on the heels of a DDoS attack, as this activity can be used to map or profile a network's existing security defences, pinpointing holes in security or vulnerabilities to capitalise on.\" Unencrypted data However, the fact TalkTalk has admitted that some of its customer data stolen in the attack was not encrypted has been the most surprising aspect for security experts. Greg Aligiannis, senior director of security at Echoworx, said: \"The most concerning revelation from today's news is the blas\u00e9 approach to encrypting customer data. Security of sensitive information must be considered a priority by everyone, especially when the life histories of potentially millions of customers are at risk.\" Emm said: \"It is alarming if any data is not encrypted \u2013 as it effectively hands over personal information to the attackers.\" The laws on the levels and types of data security that must be used by companies to protect customer data can be vague. \"There is a legal obligation for companies to implement suitable security measures ... [but] it is important to stress that companies are not obliged to have state-of-the-art security technology. They only need to have security that is appropriate to the type of data they are holding and the harm that may result from the loss of that data,\" said Mahisha Rupan, a senior associate at the law firm Kemp Little. Black market for stolen data For the 4 million customers who have had their data stolen, the attack could be the beginning of something larger, as personal information is valuable. One man from Glasgow has already reported being a victim of scam calls a day before TalkTalk reported the breach. Raj Samani, chief technology officer for Intel Security in EMEA, said: \"Not only are huge amounts of stolen information readily available online, but buyers do not even have to delve into the darknet to access this information. Almost any information you can imagine can \u2013 and is \u2013 being sold online, extending far beyond credit card details.\" The only way forward for the company, which must rebuild consumer trust, is clear and concise communication to customers of a plan to rectify the issue. Simon Mullis, global technical lead at the security firm FireEye, said: \"Security is no longer an IT problem, it's a business issue, as the way in which a company responds to such an attack can have a huge impact on its stakeholder value. It's therefore imperative that executives have a firm plan in place to recover from data breaches when they occur, as their company's value swings in the balance.\" Darren White, vice-president of EMEA at the security firm Agari, said: \"Only by having an effective and secure post-breach email response plan can consumers regain trust in the brand.\"",
  "title": "TalkTalk criticised for poor security and handling of hack attack",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/talk-talk-telecom",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/internet-safety",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/telecoms",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/telecoms",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "lead": "Security experts say telecom firm let down customers with slow and poor reaction, and failure to encrypt and secure data",
  "id": "technology/2015/oct/23/talktalk-criticised-for-poor-security-and-handling-of-hack-attack",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}