{
  "content": "Social networking site Facebook has announced it is beefing up its security features in a move to protect younger web users, in partnership with the attorney generals of 49 US states. The new measures include pledges to \"aggressively respond\" to remove inappropriate content on the site, showing automatic warning messages when young users share personal information with strangers and strengthening the age verification system on the site. Third-party service providers, such as applications developers, will have to adhere to revised Facebook safety and privacy guidelines as part of the new terms of use. Users or groups who promote or link to material promoting pornography, incest, bullying, paedophilia or racial hatred will also be \"immediately investigated\", the site said. The commitments were drawn up between Facebook and the attorney generals of 49 states and are similar to an agreement made with MySpace in January. Today's announcement follows intense scrutiny of social networking sites and how they are used by young people. The details reflect the guidelines published last month in the UK by the Home Office taskforce on child internet safety, to which Facebook also contributed along with MySpace, Bebo and other leading web publishers. This agreement represents a significant commitment for Facebook, which has to monitor the interactions of more than 70 million users every month. Although the site's typical demographic is college students and young professionals, the site accepts users as young as 13. Facebook's chief privacy officer, Chris Kelly, said that encouraging users to sign up under their real name helps facilitate more valuable connections between users and makes age verification easier. He said the site would be careful not to alarm users, or bombard them with too many warnings. \"Warnings will be very context-specific, so if a message is received by an under 18-year-old from an over-18 year old with no mutual friends, that is an appropriate place for a safety warning,\" Kelly said. \"There has been a great focus in the UK on developing best practices and promoting them, and we're pleased that we've had a constant part in that dialogue.\" Kelly said Facebook employed more than 500 staff and 100 of those are on the user experience team, which includes responding to privacy and security issues. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Facebook reinforces safety measures",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/childprotection",
    "society/society",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "Social networking site Facebook has announced it is beefing up its security features in a move to protect younger web users. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "media/2008/may/09/facebook.digitalmedia",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}