{
  "content": "What unites Jemima Khan and Helen Wood with \"SlutWalking\"? At first glance the wealthy socialite, the former escort and a global protest movement don't have a lot in common. Yet they are all part of stories that have been both feasted on and fed by social networks and in particular Twitter over the last few days. With Twitter enjoyed by more than 175m users that could be true of all stories of course, but the online frenzy these stories have provoked suggests we are witnessing a new wave of feminist activism as well as a backlash in which new forms of communication take on some very old forms of prejudice. So, for women at least, Twitter is both a cause for great celebration and some niggling elements of concern. The celebration bit is easy. It's not just that many of us (including me) don't seem to be able to live without it, it brings people together in a way scarcely imagined just a decade ago. So a remark made by a Canadian policeman to 10 students at Osgoode Hall Law School (\"I've been told I'm not supposed to say this - women should avoid dressing like sluts in order not to be victimised\") can lead to thousands of people protesting across the world that rape is never OK and that a woman can dress as she likes without \"asking for it\". In the UK alone, 4,000 have pledged to attend London's planned SlutWalk on June 4 while cities across the country such as Edinburgh and Cardiff are also planning events. The speed with which the protest grew underlines the power of Twitter to rally support against injustices. Attitudes such as blaming rape victims for their attacks help underpin the reason why so few women come forward to report sexual crimes and, when they do, there are such low conviction rates. This question of identity leads us to Jemima Khan and Helen Wood. The former has almost 65,000 followers who have read her most recent tweets which deal with erroneous accusations that she has had an affair with Jeremy Clarkson. The latter was an escort, or \"vice girl\" in our more enlightened papers, who is subject to an injunction after sleeping with a famous married actor. Twitter has given oxygen to Wood's story in a way that the anonymous actor hoped to avoid by taking legal action in the first place and I, along with most journalists, can only welcome that. What makes me uneasy are the double standards revealed when such stories become exciting gossip. So women such as Khan get \"vile hate tweets\" and Wood's name is plastered all over the media \u2013 while the actor's identity is still unknown, apart from to any journalist or lawyer who wants to know it. It seems to me to be an example of double standards as befits this whole sorry tale of superinjunctions. Such injunctions protect the private lives of the rich and powerful (nearly all men), while leaving the (largely) female halves of the relationship exposed. Don't get me wrong. Khan, wealthy and famous, is hardly powerless. Neither is Wood, who, after all, prompted the legal action because she wanted to sell her story to the News of the World. But their treatment at the hands of the masses reflected in Twitter suggest that double standards over sexual behaviour is alive and well even in a world which allows us to communicate and bring change as never before. Similar things can be said of all social networks but it seems more surprising of Twitter. Is it just the echo chamber nature of the network that makes it so? Danny Alexander MP called Twittersphere a \"parallel universe\". These stories show that it isn't - it just echoes its users, both good and bad.",
  "title": "What do Jemima Khan, Helen Wood and 'SlutWalking' have in common?",
  "lead": "Social networking sites such as Twitter are a cause for great celebration and some concern when it comes to women",
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/women",
    "technology/twitter",
    "law/superinjunctions",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "law/law",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media",
    "world/slutwalks",
    "media/jemima-khan"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "lifeandstyle/the-womens-blog-with-jane-martinson/2011/may/10/slutwalking-jemima-khan-twitter-helen-wood",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}