{
  "content": "Complaints against newspapers which published photographs of a woman committing suicide by jumping from a building have been dismissed by the Press Complaints Commission. The press watchdog said the photographs, which were published in the Sun, Times and London Evening Standard, did not breach clause five of its code, which deals with intrusion into grief or shock. But the PCC said it regretted the fact that the publication of the photographs had offended and upset readers. It also criticised the Evening Standard for not ensuring that the woman's family were aware of her death before running its story. The watchdog also directed its code of practice committee - which is revising the code - to consider amending it specifically to address the issue of \"copycat\" suicides. The Samaritans charity raised concerns about copycat deaths in its complaint to the PCC about the photographs. All three newspapers ran stories and photographs of American lawyer Katherine Ward leaping to her death from the fourth floor of a London hotel. \"Had the newspapers made light of the incident, included unnecessarily explicit details or presented the photographs in a gratuitously graphic manner, there would have been a breach of the code,\" the PCC statement said. \"However, in the commission's view, the newspapers had not sought to trivialise or sensationalise the death of Ms Ward in this way. There was no breach of the code as a result.\" The Evening Standard was criticised for not making sure Ward's family had been informed of her death before running pictures that were clearer than those published by the Sun, and therefore more easily identified her. \"The fact that the Evening Standard - which published a more clearly identifiable picture on the same day as the Sun - had not broken the news to family members seemed to be 'more a matter of luck than judgment',\" the PCC report said. The Standard ran the story on its front page, identifying the woman as Ward, a 52-year-old lawyer working for Rolls-Royce. It also used two pictures inside - one showing her standing on a window ledge and another of her in mid-fall. The Times did not run photographs until the following day. It published a portrait photograph on its front page and on page four showed pictures of the lawyer standing on a hotel ledge and jumping to her death. The Sun used a small version of the fall picture, circling the tumbling body, while the Express illustrated the story with the image of her standing outside her fourth-floor bedroom at the Kensington hotel. The other newspaper to cover the story was the Daily Telegraph, which did not use any of the pictures, which were taken by eyewitness Jon Bushell, who was among a small crowd that had gathered below the hotel before the woman jumped. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "PCC dismisses complaints over suicide pictures",
  "lead": "1.15pm:  Complaints against newspapers that published photographs of a woman leaping to her death from a London hotel have been dismissed by the Press Complaints Commission. By Stephen Brook",
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/pcc",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2006/mar/31/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}