{
  "content": "Are you a gadget fiend or a technophobe? My son's a gadget fiend but he moved out because I used him as tech support too much. I was constantly making him do things \u2013 fix my iPhone, tweet for me. He's moved far away and now I don't know where he lives. He's eight. (Laughs) Do you use technology more in your work since you moved away from comedy towards being a \"poster girl for mental health\"? Well, I've always loved to write and I carry my MacBook Air with me in case any genius floats into my mind. I also have a website and said in the beginning that it was only to promote my shows and my book. But now it's turned into a disease where I'm doing it for any attention or affection that I can wheedle out. Is it the same with social media? You're on Twitter with 89,000 followers. Totally. At first, I convinced myself that my Twitter account was for PR and highlighting important mental health issues, scientific breakthroughs and anti-discrimination initiatives. Now I'm just talking about shopping and watering my tree. It's humiliating. A cry for help. What other social networks do you use? None. I don't Facebook, I don't have time. Instagram is just too desperate and dumb. Your self-esteem ends up being dictated by how many people thumbs-up you. Oh God, it's so superficial. You did a degree in mindfulness-based cognitive therapy at Oxford. Did you use the web a lot for for research ? Very much so. One upside of technology is that I don't have to go to school, I can steal everybody else's work off the web. Does technology cause problems with mental wellbeing, by contributing to a more frenetic world? No, people do that themselves. How can you blame it on technology? It's about your relationship with it. Put the device down. People can't blame inanimate objects, they have to take responsibility. You wrote in your book about shopping obsessively online, constantly checking emails and feeling anxious\u2026 Yeah, but it's my disease, my illness, not the internet's fault. It's my job to wean myself off, the web's not going to do it for me. You have to decide when going online is essential and when it's just the drug, the desperation. Find your own tipping point and learn to watch out for it... Are you a phone junkie? Yeah, that's another addiction. But I've learnt and now I don't answer calls when I'm working or when I'm with my kids. Do you use textspeak or emojis? No. Who the fuck has time? As if a smiley face is going to express your feelings. What's your favourite app? TED talks. That's just genius. I would've been much smarter if I'd had that as a kid. Do you recommend mindfulness apps? Yeah, there are good ones but the bottom line is you have to do it yourself. Someone can talk you through it but it's like going to the gym, you have to focus. You can get as many mindfulness things as you want but if you're not committing to it, it's not gonna help. What's your favourite gadget? My Macbook. I love the feel of it under my fingers. I did have an iPad too but there's no reason any more because the Mac's so thin and light. What's your most expensive gadget? I don't know. Wouldn't that be the MacBook? Depends if you've got a swanky TV or something. Maybe we do. I don't buy the television. I point to the TV and say: \"What the hell's she wearing?\" or: \"Do we have to watch this?\" (Laughs). Actually, the most expensive gadget at home is the boiler, which I have to replace every week. There's a sign outside my house saying: \"Rip me off.\" Is there a gadget which you bought but never used? Oh, loads. Those little music players you wore on your wrist. Fitbits, pedometers, things for measuring your heart - they were an atrocity of nature. I got a breadmaker and that held the door open for about a year. Do you ever Google yourself? No. I have no idea what's out there. I'd be mortified. I know there was a picture of me on a porn site and they'd put my head on the body of a young girl. I was thrilled. Have you tried Google Glass? Yes! It's too sensational to even discuss, kind of a heightened state. You never have to hit reality again, which is good if you're a person who'd probably like morphine or coke. Online banking or in the branch? Neither. Hide your money in your pillowcase and lock the doors. Do you use self-service tills in the supermarket ? I wait for a person. I like them to check out my food and judge me. Do they have anything terminal? Are they divorced? You don't get that from a fucking machine. Which gadget should be invented? Something where I could read my own genome, then create my own medication. Ruby Wax's Sane New World tour continues. The book is out now (Hodder).",
  "title": "Ruby Wax: 'You can't blame the internet for your mental probems'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "tv-and-radio/ruby-wax",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/instagram",
    "technology/ted"
  ],
  "lead": "The comedian talks about her shopping and phone addictions, her love for her MacBook and why she doesn't use Facebook",
  "id": "technology/2014/sep/21/ruby-wax-internet-mental-problems-relationship-with-tech",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}