{
  "content": "They are young, famous and adored by fans around the world. But boy band One Direction can now boast another achievement: they're more influential on Twitter than David Cameron, Piers Morgan, Caitlin Moran, Ricky Gervais and other British users of the social networking service. That's according to PeerIndex, which has released its third annual chart of the top Twitter users in the UK, ranked by influence rather than just how many followers they have. One Direction's five members take the top five slots in the chart, with Liam Payne, Harry Styles, Niall Horan and Louis Tomlinson all scoring 98 out of 100 for their Twitter influence, while Zayn Malik scores 97. The top 10 is rounded out by Ed Sheeran, Cameron, Morgan, Moran and Gervais, with the chart based on PeerIndex's analysis of more than 10bn tweets from 150m people, focusing on UK Twitter users and the influence they have on other Brits. \"As Twitter has become more mainstream, the top 140 starts to resemble the contours of popular culture and power, the footballers, politicians and boy bands,\" said PeerIndex founder Azeem Azhar. \"However, social media's democratising effects still allow those with challenging, well-defined or interesting views to build influence. Witness the number of independent media stars, like Marius Listhrop and Dan Howell and authors like Owen Jones and Caitlin Moran.\" Corporate and brand accounts were excluded from the list, as were parody accounts and journalists from the main national newspapers, although those with external activities such as writing books (Moran and Jones, for example) stayed in. PeerIndex is keen to point out that Twitter users can be influential without millions of followers, while also suggesting that the social network has fragmented into \"subcultures\" that exist almost entirely separately. \"Twitter is so rich and vast, that subcultures co-exist on it, often without knowing about each other,\" said Azhar. \"For example, even though more than 900, 000 people follow both George Osborne, the chancellor, and Rylan, the reality TV celebrity, they only share six followers in common.\" Reading on mobile? See the list of UK's top tweeters here",
  "title": "One Direction top chart of influential UK Twitter users",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "music/one-direction",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "music/music",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Boy band take top five places, with Ed Sheeran, David Cameron, Piers Morgan, Caitlin Moran and Ricky Gervais also in top 10. By Stuart Dredge",
  "id": "technology/2013/oct/31/one-direction-top-chart-influential-uk-twitter-users",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}