{
  "content": "The brainchild of British developer Michael Birch and his Californian wife Xochi, it was the only website that mattered in the playgrounds of the UK and Ireland when it hit the peak of coolness in 2007. Among 13- to 16-year-olds, Bebo was the place to be seen online, where members could blog, email each other, upload videos and design quizzes \u2013 while many adults just didn't quite get it. But just three years and one enormous acquisition later by US giant AOL, which paid $850m (then \u00a3420m) in cash to buy the site in 2008, Bebo looks likely to close \u2013 redrawing the landscape of social networking sites and handing a big chunk to Facebook. AOL, which surprised even web evangelists with the scale of its payment for Bebo, has said it can no longer fund the social networking service, which has some 12 million users, telling employees it would sell the site or close it this year. A leaked internal memo from the AOL Ventures' executive vice-president, John Brod, said the company \u2013 which has been undergoing extensive restructuring \u2013 had decided Bebo \"was a business that has been declining and, as a result, would require significant investment in order to compete in the competitive social networking space\". \"Social networking is a space with heavy competition, and where scale defines success,\" he said, adding that a decision must be made about the future of the site by May. Bebo was founded by Birch and his wife in 2005 and after moving to San Francisco, they successfully grew the company and the site, peaking with around 40 million monthly users globally in early 2008. It was then that Birch achieved every startup web developer's dream by selling to AOL for such a fortune \u2013 even more than the $580m Rupert Murdoch's News Corp bought MySpace for in 2005. The deal was due to a cleverly devised, strategic programme of marketing projects and high-profile media partnerships devised by the former chief executive, Joanna Shields. Also a former Google executive, Shields displayed characteristic nous by leaving AOL 14 months after the acquisition \u2013 and last week accepted a senior role at Facebook in Europe. Bebo has not fared as well since the AOL deal. \"Bebo needed investment and engineers,\" said one source close to the deal. \"At one point, we had 40 engineers when Facebook had something like 2,000. You can't produce a good product fast enough at that scale. In fact you can't even keep the site running properly.\" The lack of technical support became evident with downtime increasing significantly as the site was not maintained. \"At one point the site was down for three full days in one month. There are no sites that should do that, let alone a site as big as Bebo,\" the source added. In its early days as a cool, innovative web startup, Birch and his team had \"winged it\", said another source, who criticised AOL's decision to try to broaden Bebo's userbase beyond young teens. \"AOL understood what the site needed but didn't do their due diligence. It was a crazy, emotional deal with all the ego that goes with that, and once they got their hands on the platform they realised it needed a lot of work. It all started to tumble down. And you can't serve an audience a half-baked product.\" UK law student Sam England was a typical, keen Bebo user at school \u2013 until Facebook began expanding internationally beyond its origins on US college campuses. \"Everyone used Bebo and MySpace, and they kind of co-existed. Bebo was a bit more childish, but your friends were on it. The main change was when Facebook opened to everyone. It's not about features, it's about that mass of people and a design that appeals to everyone,\" he said. Figures from marketing firm comScore show the dramatic shift \u2013 Bebo's monthly users in the UK fell by 60% from February 2009 to February 2010 to 3.8 million, while Facebook's grew 24% over the same period to 28.1 million. MySpace fell 50% to 3.5 million. Analysts blamed Bebo's decline on AOL through unsuccessful attempts to broaden its audience base and a lack of substantial funding from the outset. To many in the industry, AOL is still tarnished from one of the most high profile and least successful deals in internet history \u2013 its acquisition of Time Warner in 2000 at the height of the dotcom boom. The move away from dial-up \u2013 on which AOL originally built its business in the late 1990s \u2013 to broadband and the fragmentation of the media side of the business contributed to a $99bn loss two years later. \"Bebo was well positioned initially but lost money from that valuation [when it was sold to AOL] pretty fast,\" said Gartner's Research vice-president, Jeff Mann. \"In the past six months we've seen social networking become a winner takes all market \u2013 and Facebook is a big winner. Even in Europe, Facebook is one of just one or two top sites in the key markets, and that's because of the network effect. People go where their friends go.\"\" Mann is not optimistic about its future: \"It is possible that a buyer could come forward, or a marketing agency might want to take the site in a totally different direction. But Bebo does not have much value and is not cheap to run. To succeed it needs a massive injection of cash.\" Facebook's dominance will clearly be bolstered if Bebo does close, but the site is not the only show in town in social networking \u2013 though much smaller, other sites flourish in specific niches such as LinkedIn, the business networking site or the games site Club Penguin. Other big website purchases that probably still make executives wince include ITV's acquisition of Friends Reunited in 2005, which was last year sold for \u00a325m. \" Rise and fall of Bebo January 2005 Husband and wife team Michael and Xochi Birch launch Bebo from their San Francisco living room. The couple, veterans of a number of joint dotcom startups, paid $8,000 (then \u00a34,240) for the domain name Bebo, because it was snappy, available and meaningless. May 2006 London-based venture capitalists Benchmark see the potential and invest \u00a38m in the company for a 15.7% stake. By August 2006, the site has 25 million users around the globe. It was particularly big in Ireland, but had very few users in America, a trend which continues today. July 2007 The site scores a big online hit with the interactive teen drama KateModern. A multitude of companies partner with the site on the back of that success, including Yahoo, Microsoft and Apple. BT and Viacom make approaches to buy Bebo, but their offers are rebuffed. January 2008 Bebo voted best social networking website by the consumer magazine, Which?, ahead of Facebook and MySpace. March 2008 AOL pays $850m for Bebo, which has amassed around 40 million users. AOL chief executive, Randy Falco, says the deal is \"a tremendous acquisition and one I think is game-changing for AOL\". May 2009 Joanna Shields, Bebo's chief executive, leaves AOL. She is now working for Bebo's archrival, Facebook. 6 April 2010 AOL announces it is likely to close or sell Bebo, after being trounced by Facebook in the social networking wars. According to figures from ComScore, Bebo's global unique visitors in February totalled 12.8 million, which was down 45% on February 2009. Facebook had 462 million visitors, MySpace nearly 110 million, and Twitter 69.5 million.",
  "title": "Bebo faces closure or sale by AOL as members log off",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/bebo",
    "technology/aol",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/business",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Social networking site bought by internet giant for $850m has seen its number of global users dwindle to 12.8m",
  "id": "technology/2010/apr/07/bebo-closure-sale-aol",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}