{
  "content": "Computer-based surveillance systems can remember the precise pattern of the iris, digitise the unique timbre of a voice, recognise an individual by gait alone and identify a telltale touch on a keyboard. In theory, Californian computer scientists conjectured years ago, a police camera mounted on a helicopter could spot a potential troublemaker's face in a football crowd or a busy street, match it with police files, and then track the suspect through the hurlyburly, without any input from the cops in the helicopter. But there is a yawning gap between the amount of data new technology now allows us to collect, and our capacity to process and make sense of that information. It may be that such is sophistication of modern mass data storage systems that the entire internet browsing records of a million people could be held on about 100 matchbox-sized tapes, but the sheer volume of raw infomation collected would probably be so overwhelming that humans would be unable to process it. Take the facial recognition example. The evidence is that a computer isn't so good at recognising faces. Faces are tricky. They are remarkably mobile. More than 30 facial muscles can move to make a change of expression; 17 alone are involved in an involuntary smile. The differences in facial geography are often very subtle. However sophisticated the surveillance system, it still could not be relied upon to to spot the appropriate suspect, so to speak, spot on. By contrast, humans on the whole are remarkably good at faces. Most people instantly know whether they have seen a face before. The average adult might know 10,000 faces and - this has been proved in tests - be able to identify 90% of classmates from group photos even 35 years after leaving school. Yet, paradoxically, witnesses to dramatic or frightening acts of crime are remarkably bad at identifying the people who menaced them, or describing anyone well enough to make a convincing police photofit. Babies show a propensity to stare at faces almost from birth, as if the undeveloped brain arrived hardwired to look for the pattern of eyes, nose and a mouth. But quite how humans identify faces is a mystery. Mistakes happen. Context is important: in one cruel experiment, an Australian psychologist calmly confronted a couple of parents visiting London with the daughter they believed to be at home in Australia. The father did approach the girl to greet her. Acting upon instructions, she turned and looked straight through him. Where upon he lost confidence in his own eyes and said \"I'm terribly sorry, I thought you were someone else...\" There is also a problem with ultra-sophisticated sensing equipment. Precisely because it ultrasensitive, it can give false readings. Scientists who tried to replicate the still-notorious \"cold-fusion\" experiments late in the 1980s on several occasions reported instrument readings to suggest that they, too, were getting more power out of the electrolysis jar than they were putting in. \"They probably thought 'It's Friday afternoon, better give them something to think about,'\" said one physicist philosophically. The false-reading problem was widely recognised within the space agency Nasa. Programmers who had to sift the Niagara of data from the Nimbus satellite that monitored the stratospheric ozone layer, decided to meet the problem head on. Environmentalists and atmospheric chemists suspected that CFCs might be eating away at the ozone layer that protects life from harsh ultraviolet radiation, and they expected the loss to be more or less worldwide. So they devised an algorithm to monitor the data from the satellite, and instructed it to ignore any wild oscillation in the readings, and instead to fill in with an average of the immediately preceding data. As a result, they missed the big story. The notorious hole in the ozone layer was actually spotted in 1985 by a British Antarctic scientist who used a balloon to measure the upper atmosphere ozone count, and who was astonished to suddenly find practically no ozone at all. Only when he had contacted his colleagues in Washington, and only when they had cancelled the algorithm program and read instead the raw data themselves, did the awful truth dawn: that each Antarctic spring, the returning sun, the intense cold and the build-up of chlorine combined to punch a hole in the ozone layer as wide as the United States, and twice as deep as Everest. As ever more sophisticated technology allows more data to be collected about more aspects of our lives by more organisations than ever before, it is worth remembering one golden rule: technology is only as reliable as the people who operate it. And when did people become perfect?",
  "title": "Shock of recognition",
  "lead": "Technology can do amazing things, but modern surveillance techniques are only as reliable as the people who use them, says Tim Radford.",
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/surveillance"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "uk/2002/sep/10/privacy.timradford",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}