{
  "content": "The Labour MP Tom Watson has written to the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Paul Stephenson, accusing the force of bringing democracy into disrepute over its \"continued mishandling\" of the News of the World phone hacking investigation. Watson, a former minister, also called for Stephenson to answer a series of questions about the Met's handling of the affair. Yesterday he wrote to Nick Clegg calling for a full judicial inquiry into allegations of collusion between the Met and News International, which publishes the News of the World. This follows a New York Times report alleging that the Met failed to pass some evidence of phone-hacking to the Crown Prosecution Service. He also called for a full investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission into the paper's allegations of collusion between News International and the Met. In a letter sent today to Stephenson, Watson said: \"The Metropolitan police's historic and continued mishandling of this affair is bringing your force, and hence our democracy, into disrepute. \"Former assistant commissioner Brian Paddick has requested a judicial review of the Metropolitan police's investigation (or lack of it \u2013 we do not know) into his phone being hacked by newspapers while he was a serving officer. This is extraordinary.\" Watson also asked for answers to a series of questions, including whether the Met knew Paddick's phone had been hacked and deliberately withheld this information. He also requested that the force to make public a list of names of suspected victims of News of the World phone-hacking. \"Your conduct of this matter is being scrutinised all over the world. So far, it is bringing shame \u2013 as has News International \u2013 on our country,\" Watson added. Watson is a member of the Commons culture select committee, which reopened its investigation into press standards after the Guardian revealed last year that News International had paid settlements to three victims of phone-hacking, including the chief executive of the Professional Footballers' Association, Gordon Taylor, on condition of confidentiality. The initial Met investigation resulted in the News of the World's royal editor, Clive Goodman, and a private investigator, Glenn Mulcaire, being jailed for intercepting voicemail messages in January 2007. Andy Coulson, the Downing Street director of communications who was then News of the World editor, resigned after Goodman was found guilty. However, the Guardian revealed last year that the police had found evidence of more widespread phone hacking, but chose to limit their investigation to Goodman and Mulcaire. Chris Bryant, a former Labour foreign office minister, told BBC Radio 4 today that police had warned him that his phone could have been hacked but he was frustrated at the lack of further details. He said: \"And so I have now been trying to pursue the police to actually give me more information so that I know exactly what happened and since they are refusing to do that, we are going for judicial review. The thing is, I don't think they have properly investigated.\" The Met yesterday denied accusations that it failed to pass on key evidence. A statement issued by the force said: \"The Met does not consider that the issues raised by the New York Times accurately reflect how the investigation was conducted, constitute new evidence, or lead us to change our position. \"The CPS had full access to all the evidence gathered and the final indictment appropriately represented the criminality uncovered. \"The case was the subject of the most careful investigation by very experienced detectives and has been subject to extensive independent scrutiny by the CPS, director of public prosecutions, and the House of Commons culture, media and sport committee. \"The Met has considered whether matters raised by the media or elsewhere constituted new evidence that merited further investigation. We considered then, and we remain of the view, that no new evidence has emerged to justify re-opening this inquiry. Independently, the CPS, leading counsel and the director of public prosecutions reached the same conclusion.\" The Media Standards Trust today backed calls for a judicial inquiry into the allegations of illegal phone-hacking practices at the News International title. It said in a statement: \"We believe strongly in the principle of a self-regulated press, but given the new allegations made by the New York Times and the failure of the press to confront the issue of phone-hacking, we believe that only an independent judicial inquiry with full subpoena powers can now bring all the facts to light. \"Despite the excellent work of the select committee, and the sustained investigation by the Guardian, the full facts of the case remain unclear. Only an independent inquiry can expose the scale of the intrusion and indicate whether it is still going on, and \u2013 critically \u2013 restore public confidence in the press.\" \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. \u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "MP writes to Metropolitan police chief over 'mishandling' of phone-hacking",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "uk/sir-paul-stephenson",
    "uk/police",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/privacy",
    "law/law",
    "uk/metropolitan-police"
  ],
  "lead": "Former minister Tom Watson, who has demanded a judicial inquiry into latest claims, says Met bringing itself into disrepute. By Josh Halliday",
  "id": "media/2010/sep/03/mp-metropolitan-police-phone-hacking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}