{
  "content": "From bloggers to major news outlets, content creators the world over are struggling to bring in enough cash to keep their businesses going. Micropayments have failed, online subscriptions are viable for only a minority of specialist publications, and advertising can be a hit or miss affair for smaller publishers. But one American startup, Kachingle believes it has a way to enable readers to financially support blogs and news sites they regularly visit with just a click. Medal winners After registering with Kachingle, users decide on a maximum monthly donation, currently set at $5 (\u00a33.50). When they see something they like, they simply click on the Kachingle \"medallion\" to initiate a donation. Kachingle tracks their reading habits, tots up how many times they visit each favoured site and divvies up the money proportionally at the end of the month. It's equally simple for site owners, who just need a PayPal account and a snippet of code to display the Kachingle medallion. The revenue split gives content providers 80% of the donations, with the rest covering Kachingle's costs and PayPal fees. But why would people choose to pay for content when they don't have to? Cynthia Typaldos, Kachingle's founder and chief executive, believes that the subtle peer pressure of seeing others donate will be a key driver. She cites studies (PDF) that show people donate more to buskers if they see someone else give money first - eight times more, in fact. \"What's missing on the web are these social signals that people are extremely sensitive to. We believe we've got a mechanism to take those social signals and put them online,\" she says. When the service launches in June, a Facebook application will let users share the sites they publicly support. For each site, donors can choose to use their real name, a pseudonym or to remain anonymous. Typaldos believes that this declaration of support will become a significant part of people's identity, in the same way as music playlists on Last.fm or bookmarks on Delicious. When people give money, Typaldos says, \"in return they get something: status, recognition and association that they can display to their peers or to the public. It says, 'This is who I am; this is what's important to me'.\" Kachingle is attractive to bloggers such as Simon Perry, editor of the Digital Lifestyles website and co-founder of two hyperlocal blogs for the Isle of Wight: VentnorBlog and OnTheWight. \"I can't see a reason not to be involved with it,\" Perry says. He has tried a number of revenue models for his blogs, including Google text ads, donations, subscriptions, display ads and sponsorship, but without much success. \"Income is so hard to come by,\" he says, \"so why not? This idea of 'Just run a blog and make a living' is a fallacy.\" Even though VentnorBlog gets more than 85,000 unique visitors each month, advertising revenue isn't covering costs. Google ads, he explains, are too general for a local audience and local businesses don't yet understand why it is important for them to advertise online. Typaldos says bloggers aren't the only people interested in Kachingle. She's had enquiries from a range of media companies, including newspapers, television and radio stations. But Charlie Beckett, director of the Polis thinktank at the London School of Economics, is not sure the concept will appeal to British media organisations. \"It's very clever,\" Beckett says. \"But the American market is very different from the British market, not just in the way that their media is structured, but people's relationship with it. I don't think we have the same voluntarism, the idea that you're active with your dollars. \"I can see it working in the blogosphere,\" he adds, \"but I can't see it getting much purchase with the mainstream media corporations here.\" Bringing down the paywall Beckett says the idea is counter-intuitive. Publishers are often more attracted to paywalls than to opening up their content, but paywalls cut content off from Google and prevent what Clay Shirky calls \"superdistribution\", \"content moving from friend to friend through the social network, far from the original source of the story\". Paywalls also severely damage advertising revenue, and the income from subscriptions or micropayments is often less than could be earnt from the same content through ads. Unlike micropayments and subscriptions, Kachingle works alongside advertising, and has virtually no \"mental transaction cost\" - users don't have to decide if an article or site is worth the fee the publisher is asking. Users don't even have to delete sites they no longer wish to support - if they don't visit the site, it doesn't qualify to receive any cash from them. There's no doubt that Kachingle is going to be popular with content producers, but it remains to be seen whether people will \"sprinkle change on\" the content they love - as their slogan goes - or if they will keep their coins in their pocket.",
  "title": "Internet startups: A US startup believes it has the answer for struggling bloggers",
  "lead": "A US startup believes it has the answer for struggling bloggers - enabling readers to 'sprinkle change' on the websites they love",
  "tags": [
    "technology/startups",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2009/apr/02/internet-startups-kachingle",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}