{
  "content": "This year, with the help of others, I've done the most important thing in my life. I've saved my son, Gary McKinnon, from extradition to America, and the terrifying prospect of a 60-year sentence in a US jail \u2013 or of Gary taking his own life. He believed being taken from everyone and everything he has ever known would be a fate worse than death. This began more than 10 years ago. Gary had been searching online for information on UFOs and free energy, which he believed could save our planet. At that point, he was living in Crouch End, north London, in a flat he shared with his friend Tamsin. One morning, in the early hours, the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit woke them up, and Gary was arrested and taken into custody. They had been monitoring his computers, and he was accused of hacking into the Pentagon and Nasa. The British were later told to stand aside, because the US authorities were going to be dealing with it. They wanted to extradite Gary and put him on trial in the US. The threat of losing your child is the worst thing imaginable for a parent, and so began the fight to save my son. It took over my life and soon I was working on the case 24/7, writing to anyone and everyone I thought might be able to help, including celebrities and politicians. All of this had a huge impact on our family. Christmas had always been magical for us. We all love music, so we would write and play songs together, and walk in the woods after a vegetarian Christmas dinner. We would then take food, warm blankets and money into town for homeless people who were sleeping rough. The past 10 Christmases were filled with fear and worry, and wondering how many more Christmases we had left together. Gary retreated into himself and his mental health began to deteriorate. He stopped going out, stopped playing any instruments and became a hermit. After we lost our case in the Lords and then in the European court of human rights, I felt I was reaching my lowest ebb. I was finding it hard to fight back the tears, and some days struggled to put one foot in front of the other. Then, on 16 October this year, Theresa May announced she would refuse Gary's extradition. Since then, for the first time in years, I have felt relaxed and happy. Gary says he can't remember what happiness feels like, and it will take time for him to recover from the 10 years of trauma, but he is making progress. The support for us through very difficult times has meant so much to our family. Every email, letter, blog, comment and article written, every phone call made and demo attended in support of Gary has contributed to his freedom. This is our 11th Christmas since Gary's arrest and it will be our most special yet.",
  "title": "My first Christmas\u2026 since winning our fight against extradition",
  "lead": "Janis Sharp, Gary McKinnon's mother, on their first Christmas since the threat of his exportation to the US to face hacking charges was lifted",
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/christmas",
    "world/gary-mckinnon",
    "law/extradition",
    "law/law",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/hacking",
    "us-news/us-news"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "lifeandstyle/2012/dec/21/christmas-gary-mckinnon-extradition",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}