{
  "content": "An excitable small boy bouncing around a room in pyjamas as he sees his presents, old ladies dancing in Christmas hats and a man eating Christmas dinner alone after careful preparations aided by his annual planning spreadsheet all play a part in Sainsbury's festive campaign \u2013 the last of the major retailers' TV ads to launch. In a radically different take on the annual ads bonanza, Sainsbury's will devote a number of its pre-Christmas TV spots to clips from a new documentary created by The Last King of Scotland and Marley director Kevin Macdonald. The 50 minute film, which was funded by the supermarket, aims to tell the story of Christmas Day in Britain through a carefully edited patchwork of home videos shot last year. The film took 14 months to create from over 360 hours of real footage submitted by 114 families all over the UK in the style of Macdonald's earlier film Life in a Day. Sainsbury's will use a 3.5 minute trailer for the film to launch its festive campaign during Wednesday's Coronation Street and will then show two edited 40 second and two 60 second versions based on different themed edits which will run until December 21. The film itself will premiere on November 28 at the Bafta cinema in London with many of those involved invited to attend. It will then be shown on YouTube from November 29. Sainsbury's Christmas in a Day clips will run for about a week before it also begins screening some more conventional ads for festive food. Just over 30 of the film's participants gave their permission to be featured in the supermarket's advertising campaign, and some of them may be involved in further promotional work via social media and press. The Sainsbury's ad reflects a trend by retailers this year to create memorable films that will attract chatter and interest on social media sites as the internet becomes a core part of ad campaigns. John Lewis created a mini Disney-style animation for its Christmas offering attracting 4.7m hits on YouTube since it launched on Friday, already surpassing the total number of hits for last year's ad by 1m. Marks &amp; Spencer has opted for a glossy Alice in Wonderland inspired ad while Tesco has created mocked-up home video footage to tell the story of a family growing up. Mark Given, head of brand communications at Sainsbury's, said the retailer had spent about the same as last year on TV but had increased spending on social media, reflecting a five-year trend towards online communications. He said the team wanted to do something really different that was not a \"pastiche of Christmas\". \"Digital is at the heart of the campaign. The main film lives on Youtube and we want to get people watching the film in any way we can,\" Given said. \"At this time of year people want to be entertained and engaged and sometimes we can shout too much about our products. What better way is there to entertain than to do a film?\" he said. He said the film also tried to pick up on the idea of engaging with local communities that was behind the supermarket's popular sponsorship of last year's Paralympics and would be followed up in store by working with local charities and community groups such as choirs over the Christmas period.",
  "title": "Sainsbury's launches festive campaign with 'Christmas in a Day' clips",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/j-sainsbury",
    "business/supermarkets",
    "business/retail",
    "business/business",
    "lifeandstyle/christmas",
    "media/advertising",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "film/documentary",
    "film/film"
  ],
  "lead": "The supermarket is filling pre-Christmas TV spots with clips from a Kevin Macdonald documentary to be shown on YouTube",
  "id": "business/2013/nov/13/sainsburys-christmas-advert-kevin-macdonald-youtube",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}