{
  "content": "David Cameron sought to wrest the political initiative from Gordon Brown today by announcing nine Tory policy pledges in the first ever online-only advertising campaign by a political party, targeting young professionals and students on Facebook. The advertisements are running on all the national newspaper websites, including the Guardian and the Independent, as well as Facebook and a number of popular websites. They show the Conservative leader tackling a pile of paperwork next to the slogan \"It's time for a change\". The pledges, some of which emerged in recent speeches by Mr Cameron, include ending the early release scheme for prisoners, tougher sentencing, streaming by ability in schools, a tax cut \"for families\" and additional taxes on polluters, an emergency pension fund and the promise of more police on the beat. Other advertisements call for a referendum on the European constitution, fairer trade with Africa and support for A&amp;E and maternity services threatened with closure. The party's symbol, a tree, has reverted to its original green after a brief blue phase. A spokeswoman for the party described the campaign involving Facebook, which is a social networking site, as \"a totally new and fresh way of doing things\" which was aimed at establishing \"key messages\" ahead of the party conference next month. She dismissed suggestions that the campaign was \"setting out too much too soon\" before all Mr Cameron's policy groups had delivered their recommendations. \"David Cameron is demonstrating his fresh approach to politics,\" Caroline Spelman, the party's chairman, said. \"The country wants a change in the type of politics in this country and politicians who can really provide the solutions to the challenges the country now faces.\" The Conservatives have suffered a difficult summer as some MPs and members have become frustrated with the mixed messages emerging from the party's policy groups, which the Tory leader set the task of recommending policy on a variety of issues from public services to the environment. The groups have now begun reporting back. Michael Ancram, a former deputy leader of the party, issued a pamphlet earlier this week attacking Mr Cameron's alleged failure to uphold Conservative values. It was also announced today that Mr Cameron will deliver a single speech on the final day of the Tory conference. Last year he broke with tradition by giving two. \u00b7 The following clarification was made to this article on Thursday September 6 2007. Contrary to the claim made by the Conservative party and repeated in the article above, the advertisements are not the first online-only political campaign by one of the main parties. The Liberal Democrats have launched smaller online-only campaigns in the past.",
  "title": "Cameron issues policy pledges through Facebook ad campaign",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/conservatives",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/advertising",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/internet",
    "politics/davidcameron"
  ],
  "lead": "David Cameron sought to wrest the political initiative from Gordon Brown today by announcing nine Tory policy pledges in the first ever online-only advertising campaign by a political party, targeting young professionals and students on Facebook.",
  "id": "politics/2007/sep/05/conservatives.advertising",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}