{
  "content": "When it comes to security, the net hates hubris. No matter how technically adept you may feel, the internet has a way of slapping you down. And it is hardly consoling to know that this is as true for those staffing the firewall frontlines at big corporations as it is for the home computer user. We can all get hacked. Such was the case recently with a discussion board I run. I have no programming skills but, like many people, feel confident enough to have set up a few websites - two basic information websites, a few weblogs and two bulletin boards using the open source phpBB program (available free at phpbb.com). I was particularly proud of setting up the phpBB boards. I had read the documentation thoroughly, made good use of the detailed advice from the help boards on the phpBB site, and enjoyed the learning process of the installation. But we all know where pride goeth. On the fateful day, as the site came up, so did a dialogue box explaining that my Mac laptop couldn't run a script because it didn't recognise the file type. About the same time I received an email from a board member noting her PC was throwing up virus warning dialogue boxes when she went to the main page of the board. It was not hard to guess what was happening - my site had been hacked. To prevent the virus spreading, I took the site offline until I could figure out what to do next. That took calls and emails to techie friends, to my hosting company and a lot of Googling for explanations and possible solutions. Before long, I had my answer - I had been hit by an \"iframe\" exploit, increasingly common on bulletin board software like phpBB. \"An iframe exploit is basically an attack on the website's HTML,\" says Candid Wueest, a security response engineer with Symantec. The iframe HTML tag has legitimate uses, to link to another website for example, he says. But malicious iframe code takes advantage of holes in unpatched Internet Explorer browsers to redirect users to a website or open an image that implants a virus (in my case, the Trojan Moo virus) on the visitor's computer. The virus can then give a hacker access to the compromised computer and mails itself to the user's contacts list. Malicious iframe code is deliberately used in some decoy websites and banner ads to cause these redirects, but can also be planted into a compromised website, either because the hackers gained access to the hosting company's servers and, thus, the files for the site, or they entered through holes in the website itself. Favourite targets Widely used web applications such as phpBB are favourite targets - not least because users often aren't very adept. \"The trend is that web applications in general are getting a lot of focus from the bad guys,\" says Wueest. \"More and more people are using these applications, and people don't know how to configure their software correctly or do the updates.\" Unfortunately, the attacks tend to be automated, too, he adds. They simply use \"scripts\" - small programs that get a computer to do tasks a human could - that will employ search engines to find boards running older versions of standard board software, then launch automated attacks to insert the malicious code. Such a security breach can be a nightmare for the site owner, but can have knock-on effects for every person with websites or email facilities with the same hosting service. Once access is gained to a single site, doors may be opened to the host's servers and everyone's passwords and data. Therefore, hosting services need to be chosen carefully. Basic protections from the host provider should include requiring the use of different passwords for the user's general account and their database, site backups held on a separate server, and having each user account isolated on its own virtual server space. Andrew Michael, the chief executive of hosting service Fasthosts.co.uk, says: \"From our side, as a shared hosting platform provider, we ensure that the hosting we provide is provisioned on the latest stable version of each and every OS and scripting version available - this ensures that most known hacks are dealt with by the OS/scripting at source.\" He says they monitor for breaches and if one is found \"we rename the script (which prevents a hacker from running it remotely) and inform the site owner that the script has been compromised and that they need to take a look at the code.\" But the first defence is for site owners to install software updates as they come out and, if possible, add security features to their website, he says. To fix an iframe exploit if you have been hacked, first change your passwords. Then track down the file with the bad code (there are thousands of lines of code in dozens of files, plus a large database of content information), remove it and update to the most recent version of the application software. If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails to tech@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Inside IT: Hackers bring host of troubles",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/cybercrime",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/data-computer-security"
  ],
  "lead": "Be it a company or home user, attackers show no prejudice when there's a security lapse to exploit.",
  "id": "technology/2006/mar/30/hacking.security",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}