{
  "content": "The annual DefCon hackers' convention never fails to disappoint and this year was no exception. Now 18 years old, the hack fest spans so much of the security and hacking scene that this year it even included sessions for hack grommets aged 8 to 16, and 60 turned up at the convention centre in Las Vegas. \"The world of apps has obvious not thought about security, yet,\" wrote ten-year-old Cyfi in the introduction to her Defcon talk on Saturday. Photo by nateOne on Flickr. Some rights reserved \"Here is an import lesson they can learn from a Girl Scout. I'll show a new class of vulnerabilities I call TimeTraveler. By controlling time, you can do many things, such as grow pumkins instantly. This technique enables endless possibilities. I'll show you how. Wanna play a game? Let's find some zero-days! (Cuz it's fun!)\" What Cyfi had discovered, when too impatient to wait 10 real-time hours to level up in a game, was a \"zero-day\" flaw in the operating system that let her manually advance the time setting. She had actually revealed an exploit in both Android and iOS games that researchers have confirmed as a new vulnerability. Cyfi told CNET that though some games would detect that kind of manual cheat, she'd found ways round that including disconnecting from Wi-Fi and making smaller time adjustments. As is standard DefCon practice, Cyfi didn't reveal which games she'd cracked, but the DefCon kids sponsor is offering a (measly) $100 prize to whichever junior hacker finds the most games with this vulnerability in 24 hours. Still, not bad pocket money. \u2022 'Broadband over power lines' is one of a range of quirky solutions touted as helping people in rural areas get broadband access. Initial enthusiasm for the potential of BPL, and dozens of trials, have been replaced by the realisation that is is far slower than anything approaching broadband and also expensive to deploy, particularly in the US where more infrastructure is required between power lines and buildings. And now DefCon might just have hammered the final nail into the BPL coffin by revealing how data sent through BPL can be intercepted. Security researchers David 'Rel1k' Kennedy and Rob 'Kc57' Simon demonstrated that because data is sent unencrypted, 'sniffers' can be used to capture any raw data on a power line, and they can then access and control anything on a smart, automated system in a house. And that, reported Venturebeat's Dean Takahashi, includes jamming a security alarm signal. \u2022 And the latest in the Lulzsec Twitter taunts: Anonymousabu claimed to be tweeting from Defcon from Thursday with a slew of expletive-filled ranty messages variously claiming to have spotted 'feds' and inviting people to meet him (or her) in the exhibition hall. Photo by segagman on Flickr. Some rights reserved \"#FEDS #DEFCON Vendor room. Across from NO STARCH PRESS. I'm in the area. Find me and you get 0day. Do not find me and feel unsatisfied. LOL\" Normal service was resumed when Sabu returned to familiar triumphalism, claiming Anonymous had brought down the Syrian government's defence site. \u2022 Defcon: \"All four days just $150! Cash only at the door...\"",
  "title": "DefCon: Kiddie hackers steal the limelight",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/hacking",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/anonymous",
    "technology/broadband",
    "technology/games",
    "technology/mobile",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "lead": "A ten-year-old stole the scene at DefCon, and Anonymous claimed to be at the infamous hackers' convention too. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "technology/pda/2011/aug/08/defcon-sabu",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}