{
  "content": "Have you ever been Rickrolled? Someone sends you what looks like a link to something you want; you click on it, and instead you get Rick Astley's 1987 song Never Gonna Give You Up. Ha ha! You feel an idiot and presumably someone else feels great for having fooled you. Rickrolling evolved in 2007 from an earlier meme that sent a picture of a duck on wheels \u2013 ie \"Duckrolling\". But why ducks and why this exceedingly popular song with its gruesome video? Looking back we can plausibly argue that it is just that very, yucky, gruesomeness of Astley dancing incompetently to his slushy song that fits the trick so well, and adds to the embarrassment, but explanation by hindsight is all too easy. The web is full of internet memes. Indeed everything on the internet is technically a meme in that it's information that is copied, varied and selected \u2013 but the term is usually reserved for those that hit the big time, or \"go viral\". In themselves these assorted quirky images, videos, adverts, and tricks are mostly trivial in the extreme, but their fascination lies in how they expose what we have inadvertently let loose in creating the internet. By making it widely accessible to millions of people we have created a vast, growing and accelerating domain for the life of a new evolutionary process. Meme theory explains the generalities perfectly. What is needed for an evolutionary process to get off the ground is information that can be copied with variation and selection. Our billions of interlinked computers and servers provide precisely this \u2013 digital information is copied, stored and beamed around the world with mind-boggling accuracy and speed, and then we slower humans delight in choosing what to copy, what to send to our friends and how to tinker with, add to, subtract from or otherwise vary what we come across. This capacity for creative tinkering lies behind many of the best internet memes. Take the famous Hitler Downfall parodies. In one scene from the 2004 film Downfall, Hitler rants about the war being lost. This scene has now been endlessly reproduced, with new subtitles over the original German voice. So Hitler now rants about the failure of the latest technology, current politics, or indeed against the making of more Hitler parodies. You can even join online communities that help you make your own Downfall parody \u2013 should you wish to. In this case there are serious issues at stake. Did the parodies kill the film as a serious piece of cinema? Do they trivialise people's understanding of the second world war? Other tough questions apply to those viral home videos. How will little \"David after dentist\" feel when he's old enough to know that millions of people have watched him sitting in the back of the car on the way home saying: \"I feel funny. Is this real life?\" And then there are cats! LOLcats, standing cats, keyboard cats, box cats and my all time favourite \"Ceiling Cat\". This adorable little ginger looks down on us wherever we go and whatever we do. Starting with \"Ceiling Cat is watching you masturbate\", she has morphed (with human help) into a surrogate Christ, the creator of the world, and the antithesis of nasty black \"Basement cat\". I've even tried my own hand at creating ceiling cat variations. I have asked many experts \"Why cats?\", and their answers range from allusions to Beatrice Potter and the cuteness of kittens, to Richard Dawkins' refusal to \"answer frivolous questions\". Frivolous it may be, but perhaps he's right not to answer because, as I said, explaining after the fact is all too easy. And I believe this is all we can do. Looking back we can understand how human nature makes us want to be the first of our friends to send out the latest meme or be the one who creates the slickest parody. We can understand why those Old Spice Man adverts swept the world. That man really is just so absolutely gorgeous, with his deep sexy voice and fabulous body, yet natural and slightly mocking tone, \"Does your man look like me?\". But if you'd sent me a hundred such adverts and asked me to say which one would take off, I am confident that I'd have got it wrong. Why? Not just because advertisers all over the world are trying to make viral videos and failing, but because this is the evolution of memes we are talking about. Once one idea is successful this changes the environment in which the next generation of ideas has to compete. Once people are sick of cats (if they ever do get sick of cats) something else will thrive until they once more forget they were sick of cats \u2013 like playground games that come and go, or indeed the common cold or measles. We can't predict the specifics for internet memes but we can predict the gist. Our species has let loose the most wonderfully creative space that ever existed. Instead of individuals using their limited resources to create images, adverts, music and songs, and then subjecting them to a limited audience, we now have billions of people with access to vast amounts of human culture and the ability to change, mix and pass on anything they like. New ideas flood the world and hefty selection pressures throw most of them into oblivion, enhancing the few. This is creativity indeed \u2013 unpredictable, glorious and thriving creativity. These internet memes provide a little window into this newly evolving world.",
  "title": "A great internet meme's never gonna give you up | Sue Blackmore",
  "lead": "Sue Blackmore: Ducks on wheels, ceiling cats, and Rick Astley in full flow \u2013 you can't predict what will take off on the web, but it'll be good",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2011/mar/18/internet-meme-never-gonna-give-you-up",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}