{
  "content": "'Maddy and I are going to Barcelona for a city break, you might fancy joining us.\" Next to the message was a thumbnail picture of a woman in her early 40s. Her name was Teresa, she was a civil servant living in Hammersmith, west London, and she described herself as \"a bubbly daredevil with a sharp sense of humour\". This was all I knew, and she knew as little about me. Yet she was inviting me on holiday. What we had in common was membership of the London branch of citysocialising.com, a fast-expanding social networking site that introduces people online but enables their friendship to develop in the real world through various gatherings, arranged by the site or members themselves. With 22,000 users across nine UK cities, they've already set their sights on expanding into Europe. Since I joined, on a friend's recommendation, invites have been dropping into my inbox on a daily basis: book clubs, film nights, concerts, day trips, bar crawls. However, it was the travel forum that really caught my eye. Here members were going further than inviting each other out for brunch in Balham - they were seeing if anyone \"fancies the northern lights for New Year?\" Intrigued, I wrote my own post: \"I'm looking to go on a city break. Keen on Barcelona.\" I'd wanted to go for years, but everyone I know has already been. I wrote a brief description of my perfect short break. It would be neither a drunken blur, nor involve ticking off sights from a guidebook. Something in between would be fine: good food, good wine, lots of wandering around different neighbourhoods, plenty of time soaking up cafe culture, and, crucially, not too much shopping. A few days later, Teresa responded, taking a gamble on someone she'd never met. Most people think carefully about holidaying even with people they've known for years; personality clashes and odd habits often emerge from nowhere; different priorities and round-the-clock company can cause a strain. I mulled it over for a day or two before deciding, what the heck, it was only for two nights and, in the worst-case scenario, I could go off on my own. Teresa, Maddy (another citysocialising member) and I did manage to meet once in the run-up, for a quick glass of wine in London. Maddy, 30, seemed sweet-natured; Teresa was a tell-it-like-it-is kinda gal. Both traits could help things run smoothly in their own way. The surprise twist was that Maddy and Teresa had met at one of the site's summer events, and had been hanging out ever since. Why, then, add a complete unknown entity, ie me, into the mix? I was dying to ask, but bit my tongue in case they changed their mind. Would I end up being the awkward spare part, I wondered on my way to the airport. I needn't have worried - by the time we touched down in Barcelona we were already getting to know each other, and the sun was blazing. It turned out Maddy and Teresa had just come out of long relationships and were using citysocialising to reignite their social lives. Both wanted to travel more - just not on their own. Our first afternoon was spent washing tapas down with red wine, then wandering down La Rambla. In the evening, we moved on to DJ bar Mix (Carrer del Comer\u00e7 21) for cocktails. I told the girls I had heard about a speakeasy where you step through an old wardrobe, Narnia-style, to find a scruffy makeshift bar on the other side (El Armario, Carrer de Riereta, El Raval). I loved the idea, Maddy seemed keen, but I got the impression Teresa preferred something more glam. Also, these underground bars rarely get going before 3am and we were flagging after an early start. I went with the group consensus and we headed back to the hotel. I was beginning to realise that the key to this sort of trip is not to come with too many expectations or set plans. In fact, in some ways, it was easier than going with people you know, as you all make more of an effort to cooperate. As Maddy and Teresa had booked before me, they'd already arranged to share a room. This left me in my own double, and with a bigger bill, but part of me was relieved to have my own space. Again, I wondered if I'd end up playing gooseberry on their established friendship. Fortunately, a pattern emerged that we only retreated to our rooms to sleep - or if there was a three-way arrangement to meet in one and make some headway into Maddy's duty-free bubbly. Our second day saw us embarking on a Gaud\u00ed pilgrimage (Sagrada Familia, Casa Batll\u00f3) and enjoying the view over the city from the top-floor cafe in El Corte Ingl\u00e9s department store on Plaza Catalu\u00f1a (Maddy's recommendation). Then we took lunch at a hyped new restaurant, Manair\u00f3, known for its experimental cuisine (Diputaci\u00f3 424, manairo.com). The vibrant shot of pea soup topped with squid chilled with liquid nitrogen was a big hit, and Maddy tried the house speciality of steak cooked by blowtorch on a bed of nails. Pretentious? Yes, but highly enjoyable and the conversation flowed as freely as the wine. We spent our final night in a down-to-earth and eccentrically decorated bar called Chatelet (Carrer de Torrijos, 54). \"Maddy and I are really glad you came,\" Teresa said, as we toasted a successful weekend. \"But weren't you worried?\" I asked. She shrugged and told me she followed her instincts. \"From what you wrote, you seemed laidback. I just thought we'd get along.\" And we did. I still think it was a gamble on all sides. But it was one that paid off. \u2022 Basic membership of citysocialising.com is free; full membership with unlimited messaging costs from \u00a310.83 per month. British Airways (0844 493 0787, ba.com) flies from Heathrow, London City and Gatwick to Barcelona from \u00a395 return including taxes. The U232 hotel (0034 93 322 41 53, u232hotel.es) has doubles from \u20ac80, room only. Where to find a travel buddy Travbuddy.com With over 43,000 members and over 185,000 \"future travel\" plans entered, Travbuddy is one of the largest services for finding a travel companion online. You can post your travel blog, photos and tips on the site too. For added peace of mind, the site also operates a system where members \"vouch\" for other members after meeting them in real life. They say there have been over 5,000 vouches so far and none have been negative. Companions2travel.co.uk Launched in 2004, this site now has over 18,000 members. Trial membership is free, while full membership costs \u00a35 and entitles you to contact all other members directly. Your profile can be matched to others based on common interests, and you can also post suggestions for group trips on the forum. Thelmandlouise.com As the name implies, it's women only on thelmaandlouise.com. It's free to join and you can find someone that specifically matches your criteria through the advanced-search function. Want a spa-loving, 40-year-old who adores rock music and enjoys an occasional drink? You got it. Meetup.com Prefer group travel? Meetup.com lists worldwide get-togethers for specialist interests. \"A little less face-to-screen and a little more face-to-face\" is its tagline. Search for \"travel\" against your hometown and see what shows up. Edinburgh, for example, has two groups for lovers of adventurous pursuits, including Scottish Intrepid Adventurers which has organised over 300 meets and trips. Safety tips from companions2travel \u2022 Do not provide personal contact details or any other personal information until you have corresponded via the site a few times. \u2022 Phone the person before you meet. \u2022 Meet in a public place, possibly accompanied, and let someone else know where you are going and when you expect to be back. \u2022 Use your common sense and your intuition. If you do not feel comfortable about meeting in person when it comes to it, then follow your instincts - don't. \u2022 Consider meeting up as part of a group.",
  "title": "Vicky Baker tells you how to find travel companions online",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "travel/travellingsolo",
    "travel/barcelona",
    "travel/travel",
    "travel/weekends",
    "travel/short-breaks",
    "travel/spain",
    "lifeandstyle/food-and-drink",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "travel/catalonia"
  ],
  "lead": "Why stop at booking flights and hotels online? These days, you can find travel companions too",
  "id": "travel/2008/nov/15/social-networking-travel-companions",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}