{
  "content": "Alan Rusbridger: Thanks to all for enjoyable session. Apologies for anyone we didn't get round to answering on time (or legal grounds). And thanks to all the supportive editors and writers around the world who have written about the importance of all this.  NSA reading recommendations: For those who haven't, do read David Carr today. Also worth reading in recent days, are John Gapper in the FT and Andrew Sullivan in the Sunday Times. Revelations from documents Edward Snowden shared with the Guardian have fuelled debate about government surveillance activities in both the UK and US. Since June, hundreds of stories have been published by a team of reporters around the globe. In order to address reader comments and questions about how the Guardian has reported these stories, Guardian editor-in-chief Alan Rusbridger and Guardian US editor Janine Gibson will be answering reader questions within this live blog Monday 26 August from 10amET/3pmBST. You can submit your questions ahead of time in the comments under this post or by using the hashtag #mynsaquestion on Twitter. Clarity is our main criteria in selecting quality questions with the time allotted. Question: Answer: Alan Rusbridger: The story is much bigger, as you say. It's already bringing cooperation - see the collaboration between the Guardian, NYT and ProPublica. I would also like to see much more joint collaboration between news organisations on how to deal with the problem of securely communicating with sources - and each other. I see some signs that this is beginning to happen - also involving academics and technology experts. Question: Answer:  Janine Gibson: We run stringent public interest tests against revealing top secret material and we are careful to make the distinction between 'interesting to the public' and 'in the public interest'. Beyond that we make some redactions to sensitive material on a case by case basis - these are usually either specific operational details or individuals' names Question:  Answer: Alan Rusbridger: It feels like we've written a fair amount about this. The best recent piece I have read is by James Bamford in the current New York Review of Books. It's a fantastic primer for anyone wanting the full background on all this, and incredibly persuasive on why the Snowden material a) tells us stuff we didn't know before; and b) matters Question: Answer: Janine Gibson: Our process is the same as it has been from the first Verizon story. We contact the NSA/DNI/White House in advance of publication and tell them what we're planning to do in enough detail so that they can raise any specific national security concerns and/or comment on the issues raised by the story. Question: Answer: Alan Rusbridger: We had not yet decided what eventually to do with the original material at the point the Government asked us to return it or destroy it. Question: Answer: Janine Gibson: I wish I knew the answer to this. We will carry on reporting as long as we think there are stories in the public interest. It may be that they don't all involve publishing top secret material, of course Question: Answer: Alan Rusbridger: They are in a cardboard box in the Guardian basement. Janine Gibson: ...in London. We don't have a basement in New York. Question: Answer: Janine Gibson: There's rarely one Guardian relationship with anyone. It's an organisation with hundreds of independently-minded journalists. But we are not working with Wikileaks on the NSA documents. Question:  Answer: Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Some more answers from #myNSAquestion: Question: Answer: Janine Gibson: There are 40-odd slides in the Prism presentation. Relatively few of them are about how it works. Many are about specific operations. We published the ones which shed the most light on the program - the Washington Post chose the same slides to publish. Question: Answer: Janine Gibson: We are broadly looking for stories that explain the new capabilities of the surveillance agencies. Our stories have focused on what they can do (scale, capacity, blanket orders), whether they are doing it with sufficient oversight and restriction (secret court, warrantless surveillance, domestic collection) and how they are doing it (relationships with tech companies). We determine what to publish by whether it's necessary to stand up the story and whether the story is important. As to the order - we publish stories when we think they're solid and ready to be published. Question: Answer:  Janine Gibson: Let's hope it doesn't come to that. The US attorney general said on June 6 that journalists would not be prosecuted for doing their job. But as Alan showed by entering into a partnership with the NYT and Pro Publica on the GCHQ documents, the Guardian prioritises making sure the story is told. Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Some more answers from #myNSAquestion: Question: Answer: Alan Rusbridger: Edward Snowden himself said the following in his Q&amp;A with readers in June \"Encryption works. Properly implemented strong crypto systems are one of the few things that you can rely on.\" Question: Answer: Alan Rusbridger: We had a) operational reasons and b) journalistic reasons, which will become plain one day. But I agree that it was important that readers should know - which is why I wrote about it at at a moment when it seemed especially relevant. Question: Answer: Alan Rusbridger: Well, to keep on reporting. It doesn't make life any easier, but that's the aim. Question: Answer: Alan Rusbridger: Well, we didn't set out to make ourselves part of the story, but guess it was inevitable once threats of law started happening. Don't quite see how this is to the detriment of our journalistic standards? Question: Answer: Alan Rusbridger: All UK news organisations support some form of independent/self regulation along similar lines to that recommended by Leveson - though we're still discussing the best way to implement it in practice. The debate has got pretty arcane because of the Government's proposed use of a royal charter. But if you want a take on where the Guardian stands try http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/mar/17/leveson-vote-cause-hyperventilating-editorial or http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/mar/24/need-reform-free-press-time-openness Question: Answer: Alan Rusbridger: We had a reasonable conversation to start with. There were clearly factions within Whitehall/Westminster, with some people in the background who would have liked to go in harder on the Guardian at a much earlier date. But once there was an explicit threat to go to law something changed.. Question: Answer: Janine Gibson: We redact details if they aren't core to the story or if there's a risk of disclosing too much specific operational detail or exposure to an individual. Question: Answer: Alan Rusbridger: Reading these documents doesn't cncourage faith in the Cloud. We are very open to working with other news orgs to find new tools to enable reporters to have confidential conversations with sources\u2026 Question: Answer: Follow up: Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Question: Answer: Some more answers from #myNSAquestion: Question Answer: Alan Rusbridger: Did he? Not here, he didn't Question: Answer: Alan Rusbridger: Yes. And many of them are now with the NYT. Question: Answer: Alan Rusbridger: Yes we are Answer: Janine Gibson: If they are, I feel very sorry for anyone who has to monitor those listening devices. Question: Answer: Janine Gibson: I don't imagine the NSA are thrilled by the stories we've been running, but the US operation hasn't been interfered with at all. From Facebook: Question: Given the pressure that the UK gov't has been applying (an actually that's the source of another question - what other pressure are they applying that we may not know about) on the Guardian newspaper, is there a point where you might decide that enough is enough and that you would not pursue coverage of these very important stories anymore? Answer: Alan Rusbridger: Hope not: as I wrote in my piece last week we intend to go on reporting. Question: Are you sure that Snowden is the real deal? He first flees to China, and then to Russia. Has it ever occurred to you that he's playing you for fools? Answer: Janine Gibson: We spent time establishing that Edward Snowden was who he said he was - a contractor for NSA - and that the material he had was genuine. I can see how he would be playing us for fools if his revelations were fake, but they aren't. From Google+ Question: What privacy rights do Britons already have either from Europe or our own law that we can use to draw a line, like the 4th amendment in the US? Answer: Alan Rusbridger: We have Article 8 of the European Convention. Americans have the 4th. They seem, on the face of it, a weak protection in this area and do not seem to apply to the actions of foreign governments, i.e. supposedly difficult for US Agencies to \"spy\" on US citizens in America. But doesn't say anything about the rest of us!",
  "title": "Reporting the NSA spying revelations: Q&A with Guardian editors",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/theguardian",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "world/surveillance",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Guardian editor-in-chief Alan Rusbridger and Guardian US editor Janine Gibson answer questions about the NSA revelations at 10amET/3pmBST",
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/aug/26/nsa-revelations-guardian-editors-q-and-a",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}