{
  "content": "The social sphere's biggest players are at war and, for once, not with each other. In the past month alone, Twitter, Instagram and Yahoo have announced new tools to help combat and filter online abuse. Whether these measures will have a major impact on the web's trolling epidemic is another matter. The moves come in the wake of more high-profile examples of social media abuse, including Ghostbusters actor Leslie Jones, who said the racist and sexist tweets she received made her feel like she was in a \"personal hell.\" Twitter is introducing a new \"quality filter\" for people to control the tweets they see based on what the site describes as an \"account's origin, its actions, and whether it is spam\". The measures follow Twitter's crackdown on extremist tweets, resulting in it banning hundreds of thousands of accounts. However, Twitter, along with Facebook and YouTube, has since been accused by MPs of failing to stop its site being used to promote terrorism. While the changes are welcome, they don't go far enough, according to Alex Holmes, head of the Anti-Bullying Campaign for the Diana Award charity. Holmes points to the degree of anonymity trolls can enjoy as an obvious problem. \"Whereas Facebook has a real name policy, Twitter doesn't. You can hide behind anonymity,\" he says. To try to address this, Twitter is allowing users to apply to have their accounts verified with a blue tick mark \u2013 a feature previously restricted to brands and high-profile or public figures. Twitter's reporting policies, which have come under fire, are also in the process of being overhauled. Twitter's senior director of public policy for EMEA, Sinead McSweeney, said in a statement: \"We have been in the process of reviewing our policies to prohibit additional types of behaviour and allow more types of reporting, with the goal of reducing the burden on the person being targeted.\" Instagram, which recently lost its sixth-most-followed user, Justin Bieber, following abuse from fans, is also redoubling its efforts on safety. The network has unveiled plans to allow people to filter their own comment sections. In addition, all users will now also be able to block followers from using negative words and turn off comments altogether. Along with blocking, keyword filtering, user-reporting and teams of human moderators, to curb abuse tech companies are turning to the latest in artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), natural language processing and analytics. Yahoo is testing a new hate-speech detecting algorithm [pdf] it has created. The AI tool, which can identify patterns in comments to pinpoint the typical features of an abusive message, was used to analyse comments deemed (by humans) to be abusive in articles on Yahoo's site. According to the study, it correctly identified abusive comments in 90% of cases. Progress, however, is limited by the fact that computers fail to grasp ambiguity in language. Alex Krasodomski-Jones, who tracks online abuse for the Centre for Analysis of Social Media at the UK think tank Demos, points out that while the 90% hit rate for Yahoo's algorithm is impressive, it still means that 10% are misclassified. \"In a dataset of a million tweets, a hundred thousand abusive tweets are missed, or 100,000 non-abusive tweets are censored without cause. This should worry us,\" he says. Krasodomski-Jones, who led a Demos study revealing widespread misogyny on social media, notes that the big platforms face a uniquely difficult challenge because of their inherent openness. \"The great success of Twitter and Facebook has been that they created a beast they can't possibly tame,\" he says. \"People say 'you guys are in Silicon Valley, you should be able to create a piece of kit that sorts all this stuff'. We've seen movement towards that, but filtering abuse is extremely difficult to do.\" Chris Slowe, founding engineer at Reddit, says combating abuse remains a work in progress. \"It's important to understand there is no silver bullet solution,\" he says. \"We have around 200 posts per minute and 10 times as many comments. To properly detect abuse we need a lot of humans and manual labour involved.\" Dan McComas, Reddit's former senior vice-president for product, believes the answer lies not with abuse-filtering technologies but with the communities themselves. After leaving Reddit, McComas focused on creating a safer type of platform and founded Imzy, a network with community standards built in from the offset. \"If you ingrain the right culture into the community then the dynamic changes. It stops being a war and starts being more of a collaboration,\" McComas says. \"Most companies only start thinking about the culture of their sites once it has become a problem and by then it's just too late.\" For large established networks looking to grow their audiences, offering a safe and palatable platform has become a commercial imperative. However, with younger people using social media not only to engage with politics but as their primary source of news, as a recent poll suggests, increased efforts to sanitise the online experience and curb alternative viewpoints may invite a whole new set of issues. Krasodomski-Jones warns against forcing the tech world to create kit to further limit our exposure to anything we don't like, don't agree with or buy. \"Tech companies need to find a middle ground between the continued existence of social media as we know it and protecting the majority of people using that platform,\" he says. \"More restriction on the kinds of information a person receives brings with it as many problems as solutions.\" To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media &amp; Tech Network membership. All Guardian Media &amp; Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \"Paid for by\" \u2013 find out more here.",
  "title": "Are Facebook and Twitter doing enough to protect users?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "society/cyberbullying"
  ],
  "lead": "For social media sites, offering a safe platform has become imperative, and further steps must be taken to combat abuse",
  "id": "media-network/2016/aug/26/social-media-sites-protect-users-twitter-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}