{
  "content": "The controversy over payments to the accusers of Sir Alex Ferguson has thrown the spotlight onto the vexed question of chequebook journalism at a time when its practitioners could least do with the scrutiny. Officials at the press complaints commission are reviewing its code of conduct in relation to payments for stories, and are under pressure from the government to deliver tough new rules. The conduct of the Mail on Sunday and the Sunday Mirror, condemned in South Africa yesterday, could not have come at a more sensitive time. Newspaper industry sources say the story was first offered to the News of the World for \u00a3100,000 - \u00a390,000 for the woman and \u00a310,000 for her boyfriend. The editor, Rebekah Wade, is understood to have turned the story down, possibly believing all was not what it seemed. It was then picked up by the Mail on Sunday, which splashed the story on its front page yesterday. The Sunday Mirror also led with the story. South Africa's Sunday Times said Nadia Abrahams had sold her story to the Mail on Sunday for \u00a375,000, in a deal negotiated by her fianc\u00e9 Brian Ebden. He declined to comment yesterday. While Sir Alex conceded he should not have accepted a lift from Ms Abrahams, he condemned her motives. \"I had no reason to expect that it would lead to her and her boyfriend making false claims to the police and then selling their story to British newspapers,\" he said. At the moment, payments for stories - so long as they are not made to witnesses before or during court cases - are deemed acceptable if they are in the \"public interest\". The PCC has agreed to toughen its code in return for a guarantee that ministers - concerned about the effect of payments on high-profile trials - would not outlaw the practice altogether. But in the wake of Sir Alex's case there are suggestions that the whole system of press self-regulation in Britain is inadequate. Damian Tambini, senior fellow at the Institute of Public Policy Research thinktank, is recommending an overhaul in a forthcoming IPPR book. He said last night: \"This signals the shortcomings in the system of self-regulation. You always have a sense that bodies such as the PCC tend to reflect the interests of the industry as a whole, rather than the people who are victims of invasions of privacy. \"Cases of chequebook journalism - especially when the allegations are based on flimsy evidence - are a difficult area and we need to be sure that the complaints system is working properly.\" Chequebook journalism is unlikely to be eradicated completely as tabloid newspapers - and some broadsheets - have been making such payments for years. Now, television companies such as Granada, which makes the Tonight programme for ITV1, and the breakfast broadcaster GMTV, are known to use the lure of money to secure stories and exclusive interviews. The communications bill will come before parliament in the new year. If the press does not get its house in order before then, calls for statutory intervention are likely to grow.",
  "title": "Sex allegations put newspaper conduct under microscope",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "The controversy over payments to the accusers of Sir Alex Ferguson has thrown the spotlight onto the vexed question of chequebook journalism, writes Matt Wells",
  "id": "media/2002/oct/14/pressandpublishing.privacy5",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}