{
  "content": "Next Sunday, 19 August, is World Humanitarian Day. You probably have not yet gotten the memo about this \"global day to celebrate humanity and the spirit of people helping people\", but quite likely you will. Or, at least, so far, more than 100 million people are on the list to get it. World Humanitarian Day is \u2026 well, I have no idea what it actually is. It is meant, in some way, to commemorate the work of S\u00e9rgio Vieira de Mello, the high-ranking United Nations official who was killed in Baghdad in 2003. De Mello was from Brazil and Brazil is a new world power, and getting the UN to sponsor World Humanitarian Day is a demonstration of its enhanced status. Every congress, or legislative body, or communal gathering the world over has various parties and interests who are always coming up with ceremonial or commemorative or self-congratulatory or plain old PR puffery occasions. The vast majority of them go unacknowledged. But some \u2013 like, say, Mother's Day \u2013 enter the popular imagination and marketing quick stream; that is, they go viral. At first glance, it would hardly seem that World Humanitarian Day has such potential. And yet, it has a few things going for it: a kind of inclusiveness, and lack of specificity, and general positive energy, that is hard to argue with. The standard here for promotable nebulous international altruism is \"We Are the World\", which, if it did nothing else, redounded to the credit of the music industry. World Humanitarian Day has recruited Beyonce Knowles to be its face and she will release a video of her song \"I Was Here\", filmed in the UN general assembly, to mark the day. It is obviously good for Beyonce Knowles if World Humanitarian Day becomes Beyonce's World Humanitarian Day (rather then S\u00e9rgio Vieira de Mello's). Such an event ultimately derives its success from a kind of mutuality of promotional benefits. The more people (that is, celebrities) and enterprises whose aims it furthers, the more potential it has. Along with the S\u00e9rgio Vieira de Mello Foundation, Brazil, the UN, and Beyonce, World Humanitarian Day has the makers of the new technology platform, Thunderclap, promoting it. Thunderclap is a novel tool that could push World Humanitarian Day up there with \"We Are the World\" and Mother's Day and, to boot, make Beyonce Knowles more beloved than she already is. Likewise, World Humanitarian Day could turn Thunderclap into an incredibly important, as well as potentially really irritating, technological force. Thunderclap has been developed by the hottest advertising agency in the US, Droga5, and seeks to address the most burning question in marketing circles today, \"social media, what is it good for?\" Or, how in the hell, in the babble of social media, do you make a message stand out? This is not a small question. The lack of an answer has already shaved some $40bn off of Facebook's value (which could have provided a lot of humanitarian aid). Thunderclap's proprietary proposition is as follows: here's a platform that can be used to harbor, or horde, social media messages, in such a way that they can all be released at the exact same moment, achieving that most sought-after and elusive marketing status: impact. In other words, lots of people can get together and bundle their followers, like political dollars, and, theoretically, create a viral, or tidal wave, effect. Thus, next Sunday, 100 million people, representing, in addition to Beyonce's millions of followers, the followers of, among others, Chris Brown, William Shatner, Piers Morgan, and InStyle magazine will get a message about it being World Humanitarian Day. (Ideally, of course, there will be lot and lots of nobodies who also add their random followers to this great movement.) Advertising works best when everybody gets the same message at the same time, thereby creating a shared experience \u2013 the Super Bowl model, if you will. Social media's operation, on the other hand, tends to be a random and, most often, a one-to-one experience. The vaunted viral promise is unpredictable. This is a problem not only for the ad industry, which sells predictability, but for the purveyors of social media. They have built a system of asynchronous messaging, but now have to make money through advertising which is built on \u2026 synchronous messaging. Hence the real work of World Humanitarian Day and the Thunderclap platform: saving social media. A spontaneous version of World Humanitarian Day might be something like the viral Kony 2012 campaign, wherein a group seeking the arrest of Uganda war criminal Joseph Kony made a short film seen by over 100 million people. Advertising methodology tries to take what works organically in the culture and commodify it. Thunderclap offers the possibility of not just, in this instance, helping to encourage humanitarianism, but of bringing some consistency and order to viral marketing. The possibility that there might actually be such a method or a platform that could lend structure and control to a message and its distribution is what allows Mark Zuckerberg to believe that Facebook will not end up like Yahoo. So, if, next Sunday, you suddenly find yourself thinking humanitarian thoughts and humming Beyonce's \"I Was Here\", then social media may have been saved \u2026 if not human suffering alleviated. If, on the other hand, it passes unnoticed, then the cause that has been advanced here most of all is spam.",
  "title": "What good will World Humanitarian Day do? | Michael Wolff",
  "lead": "Michael Wolff: If the Thunderclap viral marketing tool works, it may save social media's business model. But for suffering humanity \u2026 very little",
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/unitednations",
    "music/beyonce",
    "world/world",
    "technology/facebook",
    "global-development/aid",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/technology",
    "business/business",
    "global-development/humanitarian-response"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/aug/13/what-good-will-world-humanitarian-day-do",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}