{
  "content": "The BBC is establishing the position of a social media editor. The assignment will be part of a bigger effort from the BBC to open up to social media. Last month it emerged that the BBC is working on a relaunch of its website with a greater emphasis on social network. The editor, who will work in the UK newsroom, will help the organisation to learn how to explore and navigate in social media. \"Like a lot of other news organisations, we are at the beginning of something very exciting\", explained Nic Newman, the BBC's future media and technology controller, journalism. \"We recognise social media plays an important part. With the new position we are co-ordinating best practice. We think that the decision to appoint a social media editor is the best way to understand what works.\" Sky News appointed Ruth Barnett as Twitter correspondent last spring, garnering much media coverage in the process, and her main brief is to cover breaking news. So, is the BBC looking to establish a public face for its social media move? Nick Newman clearly thinks not. He said: \"We are trying to facilitate to change the BBC, and not putting it all on one person.\" In addition, the BBC already has people scanning social media for news. \"This can't be all done by one editor.\" The BBC's social media editor's remit must be partly seen as an exploration of social media: \"We don't know exactly what works out. What guidelines does a news organisation need? What is the best way for a journalist to present yourself? What is the thing you watch out for? To reach out to your viewer with social media is a way of taking your audience seriously, and that is very important for the BBC\". In March ITV appointed Ben Ayers as a social media and online engagement manager whose role is to reach out to the viewers. His appointment was part of ITV's effort to integrate social media features for ITV's core programmes.",
  "title": "BBC creates social media editor post",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/bbc",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "The BBC is establishing a new position in its UK newsroom in an attempt to adjust to a new media landscape. By Mercedes Bunz",
  "id": "media/pda/2009/oct/19/bbb-creates-social-media-editor",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}