{
  "content": "A host of Android torch apps come with some strange permissions, including the ability to delete apps, track location, tinker with bluetooth connectivity, view call details and write additional software to the phone, a security company has warned. Tens of millions of people have downloaded apps like the Super-Bright LED Flashlight or Brightest Flashlight Free without reviewing the permissions. But SnoopWall's report on permissions sought by the top 10 Android flashlight apps suggests they should take more care when installing. The report suggests that torch apps should only require a limited set of permissions to run \u2013 for example, around use of a device's camera, in order to use its flash to provide light. However, developers are often asking for far greater power over a user's device, in order to collect data and sell it on to marketers and ad networks. It's the latest reminder that if you're not paying for an app, its business model may well involve selling your data. Action has been taken against the developers of such software in the past. Goldenshores Technologies, the creator of Brightest Flashlight Free, was taken to task by the Federal Trade Commission in the US last year. The FTC noted in a complaint that the Goldenshores privacy policy did not \"disclose or adequately disclose to consumers that the Brightest Flashlight App transmits or allows the transmission of device data, including precise geolocation along with persistent device identifiers, to third parties, including advertising networks\". \"The failure to disclose, or adequately disclose, these facts, in light of the representation made, was, and is, a deceptive practice,\" the FTC wrote. Goldenshores agreed to clearly display information on what its apps were doing so it is \"sufficiently noticeable\" to the average user, though it does little more than what other developers do on Google Play. Are users bothered by the privacy implications of these kinds of apps? Seemingly not, judging by their popularity. Brightest Flashlight has been installed more than 50m times according to the Google Play store's stats. Privacy advocates are disturbed by the level of access companies have to people's phones. \"It is completely unsurprising that the public find themselves exposed to fraud and data theft when the apps they download are so far removed from privacy by design,\" said Emma Carr, director of Big Brother Watch. \"Few of us would expect an app to be able to access our contacts lists, text messages or location data, yet so many of them do just that. There needs to be far more awareness about how to protect your device and the data on it. \"The companies developing the apps must be as transparent and simplistic as possible about what data they collect, how they use it and who has access to it, whilst the public must take the time to question why their free app wants access to this information.\" SnoopWall's report focuses on Android, but it addresses similar apps on Apple's iOS and Microsoft's Windows Phone platforms, noting that these too have privacy issues that users should know about. \"The good news is that on these two operating systems apps like this cannot hide in the background,\" explained SnoopWall. \"The bad news is when you run downloaded Flashlight Apps on these two platforms, they are still building up a profile on users including your location, and are able to send and receive information over the internet \u2013 totally unnecessary for a flashlight.\" \u2022 How can I keep my Android smartphone or tablet secure?",
  "title": "Check the permissions: Android flashlight apps criticised over privacy",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/android",
    "technology/apps",
    "technology/smartphones",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "technology/software"
  ],
  "lead": "Security firm SnoopWall warns that torch apps are requesting more access to users' data than they need. By Tom Fox-Brewster",
  "id": "technology/2014/oct/03/android-flashlight-apps-permissions-privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}