{
  "content": "What will you be putting on your Apple Watch? I am assuming some of you must have them by now while the rest of us wait for the price to drop below the level of our apathy and for the teething problems with version one to be ironed out. On the welcome screen for Apple Watch Apps, the first three suggestions are Twitter, the New York Times and Nike+ Running, suggesting the average Apple Watch purchaser is a fit opinion former. The New York Times illustrates its own offering by a series of text alerts \u2013 all that will fit on the watch face and remain legible. It is not the whole story, but during a run around the block it is enough. As screen space shrinks consumers will make more selective choices about what their \"bare essentials\" are in communications. Many years ago when news organisations were first launching websites, one of the first non-browser-based services launched was SMS text alerts - now we are heading back there. News is shrinking, not just in terms of revenue and jobs, it is literally arriving in ever smaller pieces. Instagram has 12-second videos from BBC News littering the feed of cat pictures and dinner shots. On SnapChat \"Discover\", the Daily Mail, Cosmo and ESPN pare down sport, celeb and style stories for the younger, shorter attention-span. Huffington Post grapples with getting its \"breaking news\" on to WhatsApp. Every journalist with a phone adopts Periscope to live-stream snippets of political campaigns or riots. The pressure of the attention economy means that for many years the decline of \"the mass middle\" has been predicted; now the data suggests it has arrived. News that is too long for a tweet, too short to be in-depth analysis, and too slow to be telling you anything first has decreasing value. News that is digitally generated but which does not work on a phone is increasingly worthless. The almost certain success of the Apple Watch, or something like it, resides in the fact that as a society we are becoming dependent on our phones, and the most inconvenient thing about a phone is actually carrying a phone. According to the recent Pew study on smartphone use in the US, 65% of the population now own a smartphone compared to 35% in 2011. Remarkably there is a growing segment of the population, usually a young, urban, lower income demographic who only access the internet through a phone's data plan \u2013 10% of Americans according to the Pew survey. This wholesale shift in how we access information, and how we need it near to us at all times, puts a heavy emphasis on the new gatekeepers. Cramming more of what we need through narrower portals is ultimately forcing news and information providers to either comply with the conditions of the Apple App Store or throw their lot in with the most dominant apps and platforms like Facebook. Mobile technology is driving all of these changes. In an illustration of the problems of scale, a Bloomberg reporter fired up the instant video streaming app Periscope to film Hillary Clinton talking in a food warehouse in Iowa as part of their campaign coverage. Almost immediately the phone camera footage was semi-obscured by a broadcast journalist carrying a huge camera rig who needed a better position for a shot. There might ultimately be room for both the big and expensive and the small and cheap, but the difference in output is going to have to be distinctive enough to justify the price. Recently in one US newsroom staff were digesting the idea that their brand was part of an experiment with Facebook to publish their stories directly onto the platform, as executives presented on mobile growth and revenues: \"The numbers were huge but the revenues were relatively tiny,\" noted one editor. Results from Facebook and Google last week emphasised that advertising growth for both is coming from mobile and, to a lesser extent, video. News organisations and media companies have little choice not just to follow this path but to actually merge with it, if they wish to gain the required scale in this market. That narrow window of attention which shrinks to the size of a watch face means reshaping newsrooms to match. Even in digital newsrooms this is going to create legacy problems. Teams of \"news app\" developers, who were hired to produce sophisticated graphics and more elaborate news presentations, are as worried as print journalists used to be about whether these high production value skills will fit in the Lilliputian world of news. The New York Times Pulitzer prize-winning Snowfall presentation won't work on an Apple Watch or Facebook app. Snowflake might be more size appropriate. Having an always-on, news-aware audience could create wonderful opportunities for all those who have fretted about audience engagement. However, the ultimate outcome of smaller interfaces is going to be limited access for suppliers, and that, like the revival of the text alert, is very much taking us back to the future.",
  "title": "Apple Watch highlights need for shorter news as screen sizes shrink",
  "lead": "News nuggets are back and new gatekeepers emerging as we hark back to the days of the SMS text alert",
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/apple-watch",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/google",
    "media/bloomberg",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/mediabusiness",
    "media/us-press-publishing",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/smartphones",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/new-york-times"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/media-blog/2015/apr/26/apple-watch-shrinking-news-apps",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}