{
  "content": "The Atlantic Ocean just got a little wider. The European Court of Justice's latest ruling has determined that the US \"does not afford an adequate level of protection of personal data\". The case brought against Facebook over the potential for US government snooping on European citizens' data, throws the differences in internet culture into stark relief. But those differences have been growing for some time. Until Tuesday, it had been US companies \u2013 principally Google and Facebook \u2013 that had been driving the wedge in. In 2012 Google enraged European privacy regulators by declaring that it would unite data from its different services, mashing different privacy agreements into one. (The row is still going on.) Then in 2014 the European Court of Justice declared that Google, as a \"data processor\" was covered by the data protection principles, and so must remove links about people from its search index that were \"outdated, incorrect or irrelevant\" (though with exceptions for public figures). Google has implemented the so-called \"right to be forgotten\" more or less, but the ruling infuriated many in the US. Facebook has set data protection authorities from around Europe on edge. An investigation followed the Dutch data protection authority asking Facebook to delay rollout of its new privacy policy, while the Belgian data protection authority recently took the social network to court over its use of cookies and tracking. Now the ECJ has ruled again, and once more highlighted the gulf in attitudes either side of the pond. \"Safe harbour\" ostensibly means that a European citizen's personal data being processed by a US company on US-based computers is under the same protections as if it were still in Europe on a European-owned system. But the ECJ says it doesn't protect that data from US government snooping \u2013 and so cannot be allowed. The problem with safe harbour is that the US government now treats any data on computers of US-owned companies anywhere in the world as fair game for examination. Microsoft, in fact, is vigorously appealing a court case won (in the US) by the US government, which asserts that it has the right to access data held in one of the company's Irish data centres. Safe harbour applied, in theory, to US companies but not to the US government; now the edifice has come crashing down. To privacy activists, the surprise is that it has taken so long: \"Safe harbour was flawed in principle and flawed in practice,\" said Joe McNamee, executive director of European Digital Rights, a pressure group for digital civil rights drawn from 19 European countries. \"After last year's data retention ruling, this is the second time in two years that the Court of Justice has struck down an instrument that the European Commission had spent years defending.\" (The first was the rejection of the Data Retention directive, which had been favoured particularly by the UK government.) The fallout could be dramatic. In August 2013, soon after Edward Snowden's revelations about the NSA's indiscriminate gathering of data from US companies, US technology businesses began fretting. If Europeans, and European businesses, thought that they couldn't trust the US to look after their information, they could lose huge amounts of business \u2013 estimated then at between $21.5bn and $35bn through to next year. The US-based Cloud Security Alliance, which represented companies there offering file storage and internet-based computing, thought it could lose between 10% and 20% of its market to rivals. It was already seeing contracts being lost to European rivals who could promise Europe-based processing. Things are probably going to get worse for them. Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, commented: \"In the face of the Snowden revelations, it is clear that safe harbour is not worth the paper its written on. We need a new agreement that will protect EU citizens from mass surveillance by the NSA.\" The ruling hasn't been a surprise; it was foreshadowed last month by a summary ruling which was confirmed on Tuesday, but its progress to the ECJ has been slow, in theory giving any affected company time to adjust. Thus the larger companies \u2013 Google, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft, Twitter \u2013 are well-placed to deal with the fallout. Those who will lose out are the smaller companies, and startups that had been planning to use something like Amazon's AWS cloud services. The nature of cloud systems is that data is transferred promiscuously, both to create resilience and speed up access elsewhere. One possible solution is to encrypt the data using keys which remain on servers in Europe; that will carry performance penalties, but might satisfy the letter of the law. In the longer term, the bigger problem will be the gap that is opening between the US and Europe. Privacy policies with teeth, the \"right to be forgotten\", the desire to keep data inside Europe - all are at odds with the US's treatment of data, which is more cavalier. That has helped the US to leap ahead in its development of systems, but also seen a swelling tide of resentment in the US at the burgeoning amount of individuals' data collected and traded, and sometimes stolen. Will Europe act as the example for the US to follow? History suggests not \u2013 which means the cultural gap is going to get wider.",
  "title": "'Safe harbour' ruling illustrates growing chasm between US and EU",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/alphabet"
  ],
  "lead": "The European Court of Justice decision in the Facebook case is the latest evidence of difference in attitude towards data protection",
  "id": "technology/2015/oct/06/safe-harbour-ruling-growing-chasm-us-eu-data-protection",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}