{
  "content": "MI5 and the police faced embarrassment last night when electronics experts revealed that the new 'Big Brother' internet surveillance system - designed to enable them to monitor every internet user in the country - will not function properly. The Government Technical Assistance Centre (GTAC) will be introduced to the internet by the middle of next year. As a part of this facility, every Internet Service Provider in the UK will have to allow the police to fit a 'black box' to their computer systems. The black boxes will monitor emails sent and web pages accessed on that ISP. But experts fear the technology does not exist to monitor the enormous amounts of data that pass through ISPs. Keith Williams, executive chairman of the London Internet Exchange, Europe's largest internet exchange, said: 'It is highly unlikely that any black box the Government will install shall attain the desired effectiveness. The public sector are not renowned for their use of the most up-to-date technology.' The surveillance powers that the GTAC system will give the Government will be introduced under changes to the law made by the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Bill, now being debated in the Lords. The internet is developing at such a pace that any black box will most probably become obsolete in the estimated six months between when it is designed and built, and when it is introduced to the internet. 'Traffic on the internet has doubled every 100 days for several years, regardless of advances in technology' said Mitchell. 'For this reason, whatever technology they introduce will be much less effective within six months and the majority of it obsolete within a year.' The system will cost an estimated \u00a330m in the first year alone. As advances in technology make the internet faster, these machines will have even more data to process. Next year new ADSL internet connections are expected to be introduced, giving people internet access at 100 times the present speed through a telephone line. This will mean that the black boxes will have to be updated. 'It is clear that this year's box will not be next year's box' says Mitchell. 'The \u00a330m is a recurring cost, payable each year.' The Home Office has yet to give the specifications of these boxes and is discussing whether the taxpayer or internet users will pay for them. Campaigners fear that, however GTAC is funded, the eventual loser will be e-commerce in the UK as companies are forced to raise their prices to meet the costs of introducing such a system. Tim Pearson, of the Internet Service Providers Association council, said: 'Mitchell is right in his diagnosis. What is more worrying is that the Government have yet to tell us exactly how they intend to implement this surveillance system. After several years of discussion, this is ridiculous. This is going to cost a lot more than the Government are currently saying.' The Home Office last night responded: 'There will be no technical problems with this system. The appropriate technology will be employed and kept up-to-date.' A Home Office spokesperson emphasised that GTAC will be primarily a centre for cracking the codes used to encrypt some internet traffic, and not directly connected to the black boxes. He did concede, however, that information obtained by these boxes would be passed on to the GTAC centre.",
  "title": "New web spy system is not up to the job, say the experts",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "world/surveillance",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "MI5 and the police faced embarrassment last night when electronics experts revealed that the new 'Big Brother' internet surveillance system - designed to enable them to monitor every internet user in the country - will not function properly. ",
  "id": "technology/2000/jun/18/security.internet",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}