{
  "content": "In one of the most anticipated flotations of the year, Twitter shares flew sky high on their market debut last week before having their wings clipped. At Thursday's opening, investors scrambled to buy shares in the microblogging site, sending them soaring from the $26 offer price to more than $50. Twitter ended its first day as a public company with its shares at $44.90, a 73% rise which valued the business at more than $24bn. That equates to around $120 a user. The float instantly made billionaires of co-founders Ev Williams and Jack Dorsey, while private equity group Rizvi Traverse and Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal were also in the money. The company successfully avoided the Facebook fiasco, where the social media group's shares fell sharply in the weeks after its public debut and took more than a year to return to their flotation price. It also outshone the UK's Royal Mail, which rose 8% on its first day of dealings last month and took a month to record a similar rise to Twitter's one day gain. Royal Mail closed at 569p on Friday, down 2.5p on the day and 72% higher than the 330p offer price. But as some analysts raised the spectre of another dotcom bubble, and said Twitter - which has yet to make a profit - was overvalued, its shares fell 4% to $43.09 in early trading on Friday. Overall, markets suffered another nervous week, with investors growing increasingly concerned that the US Federal Reserve might start to reduce its $85bn a month bond buying programme, which has been a key support for shares. This was prompted by stronger than expected US GDP growth on Thursday and much better than forecast non-farm payroll numbers yesterday - 204,000 jobs were created last month in comparison to predictions of a 120,000 increase. But a weak University of Michigan consumer confidence figure, which was issued shortly after the jobs data, threw everything back into the melting pot again. The surprise of the week was the European Central Bank cutting its key interest rate from 0.5% to 0.25%, a move which immediately put pressure on the euro. But strong UK data, including buoyant service sector figures, prompted suggestions that the Bank of England could move in the other direction and raise rates earlier than the market had been anticipating. So the FTSE 100 finished at 6708.42 on Friday, up 11.20 points on the day and but down 26 points on the week. British Airways and Iberian owner International Airlines Group led the day's FTSE 100 risers, up 27.9p to 376.9p after a recovery at the Spanish airline helped it more than double third quarter operating profits to \u20ac690m. Rolls-Royce rose 40p to \u00a312.10 as the aero engine maker said improvements in its defence and marine businesses would lead to better than expected growth in full year profits. Analyst Tina Cook at Charles Stanley said: In our opinion, recent share price underperformance offers an attractive entry point for investors. Rolls Royce remains well positioned with a diversified business model, global customer base, earnings visibility and potential for margin improvement. Elsewhere BAE Systems, which said on Wednesday it may cut 1,775 UK shipbuilding jobs, lost 3.2p to 457p. The idea of Vodafone being a possible target for US telecoms group AT&amp;T continued to gain ground, with two more brokers raising the prospect last week. At Berenberg, analyst Paul Marsch said: While rising political concerns over US eavesdropping may make European Commission approval of an AT&amp;T move more challenging, if AT&amp;T is serious about the European mobile opportunity, it is unlikely to be put off by such concerns....The prospect of 265p-275p per share remains enticing. Meanwhile Bernstein analysts raised their price target on Vodafone from 230p to 250p, factoring in a 75% chance of a deal with AT&amp;T. They said: Operationally and strategically, both AT&amp;T and Vodafone are experiencing a rough patch. The possible mega merger between the two that could be a welcome distraction for both appears to have the same momentum as the Verizon/Vodafone deal earlier this year. Vodafone added 0.95p to 228.75p on Friday. Aberdeen Asset Management dropped 20.2p to 422.2p on reports that Australia's Macquarie was preparing a \u00a3500m bid for Aberdeen target Scottish Widows, the fund management arm of Lloyds Banking Group, prompting concerns about a possible bidding war. On the high street there were contrasting updates last week from Marks &amp; Spencer, whose clothing ranges continued to struggle, and Associated British Foods' Primark chain, which reported a 22% rise in full year revenues to \u00a34.27bn and underlying profits up 44% to \u00a3514m. Marks slipped 8.5p to 500p on Friday while ABF added 8p to \u00a322.60. Finally, Finnish nickel miner Talvivaara Mining Company fell 11% to 6.2p on Friday after an 8% decline on Thursday, when it said it was in advanced rescue talks with the country's government but could face bankruptcy if the negotiations failed. It ran into financial difficulties after suffering production problems and weak nickel prices.",
  "title": "Twitter dips after first day surge, while markets remain uncertain over Fed's plans",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/business",
    "technology/twitter",
    "business/royal-mail",
    "business/international-consolidated-airlines-group",
    "business/rollsroycegroup",
    "business/baesystems",
    "business/vodafonegroup",
    "business/aberdeenassetmanagement",
    "business/marksspencer",
    "business/associatedbritishfoods",
    "business/talvivaaraminingcompany"
  ],
  "lead": "Uncertainty after better than expected US jobs data but disappointing confidence figures",
  "id": "business/marketforceslive/2013/nov/08/twitter-ftse-us-federal-reserve-jobs-data",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}