{
  "content": "We are going to Strasbourg on a narrow but important point: should a newspaper be compelled to tell you if it intends to publish something which it knows is private? The law says you have a right to privacy but it must be weighed against a public right to information. The question is: who should do the weighing? The news media say the right person is a newspaper editor. We say no, the right person is a judge. This has nothing to do with the current debate about where the balance between privacy and public interest should lie. It is solely about who should decide. We say an editor is not impartial. It matters. Breach of privacy can be very serious \u2013 worse even than theft because once published, no court can make the information private again. Tabloid revelations can cause great pain, even suicide. The problem only arises when a newspaper keeps its intentions secret. With serious investigative journalism, the subject is approached. Having been contacted, if the information to be published is private, he can consider applying for a temporary injunction to stop publication until trial. But he will only get it if the judge believes he will ultimately win giving particular consideration to the right to freedom of expression. Some tabloids like to titillate their readers with private information, usually something sexual. If there is no public need to know and the subject has not consented, this is illegal. So they go to elaborate lengths to maintain secrecy. If they can avoid an injunction and get the story out, they know the victim is very unlikely to sue. Lawyers will tell him that his private information would be published all over again and he will be thousands of pounds out of pocket, even if he wins. This means that as things stand, the law is ineffective. It cannot prevent even the most outrageously illegal invasions of privacy by the tabloids. If they feel like it, they can ruin lives with impunity. The only answer is to compel a newspaper to inform you if it intends to publish your private information. Then you could, if you wished, approach a court on the same basis that the subjects of serious journalism already can. Would this constrain the press or inhibit investigative journalism? Will there be practical difficulties? According to the Daily Mail editor and chairman of the rules committee of the Press Complaints Commission, prior notice is already given in 99 cases out of 100. So notification is clearly not a constraint, nor does it appear to cause any significant difficulty. If the European court of human rights decides in my favour, it will be for the government to frame legislation that prevents illegal and abusive tabloid ambushes but protects serious journalism. I believe that this is achievable and essential to control a section of the UK press who currently have no regard for the law or their own rules.",
  "title": "In search of fairer privacy laws | Max Mosley",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "media/mosley",
    "law/law",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/eu",
    "world/world",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "Max Mosley: We want Strasbourg to rule that judges, not editors, should decide on the balance between privacy and public interest",
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2011/jan/11/privacy-law-max-mosley-strasbourg",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}