{
  "content": "Is data journalism? If you need to ask yourself the question then you are about to miss out on an information bonanza. Starting this week, Downing Street is to make a series of announcements that could give journalists access to public data from all corners of local and national government, and revolutionise the way they work. Crime, health, education, the economy: every aspect of our lives is measured by the government, which has become very good at collecting data. But, traditionally, that data has been made as inaccessible as possible. Published on PDFs rather than spreadsheets; jargonised so much as to make it meaningless; aggregated into such big geographical areas that it tells us nothing about where we live. Freeing up government data formed a key part of the three main parties' manifestos and now the coalition government has pledged some major launches, the first of which we could see in the next few days. \"We will unleash a tsunami of data,\" says one source close to the Big Society proposals. This is set to include local crime statistics, full details of all government contracts and quangos spending more than \u00a325,000, local government spending of more than \u00a3500 and full salary details of senior civil servants. The Big Society declaration published by Downing Street included a key line: \"We will create a new 'right to data' so that government-held datasets can be requested and used by the public, and then published on a regular basis.\" Curators and explainers The impact on journalism is expected to be great. The Chicago-based web developer and founder of the neighbourhood news site EveryBlock, Adrian Holovaty, says it's going to be challenging but exciting for journalists. \"As more governments open their data, journalists lose privileged status as gatekeepers of information \u2013 but the need for their work as curators and explainers increases. The more data that's available in the world, the more essential it is for somebody to make sense of it.\" The newbies at Downing Street have already been talking to Tom Steinberg, the creator of MySociety, which developed democracy sites such as Theyworkforyou, Fixmystreet and the Downing street e-petitions site. William Perrin, the creator of Talk About Local, a site that encourages people to set up community websites, is also actively involved. Both are non-partisan, having also been involved in the previous administration, which is where all this started. Asked by Gordon Brown what the UK could do to use the internet properly, the man credited with inventing the worldwide web, Tim Berners-Lee, replied that the government should put all its data online. He later reported Brown saying, \"OK, let's do it.\" What followed was the launch earlier this year of a gateway to UK government data: data.gov.uk, overseen by Berners-Lee and Professor Nigel Shadbolt from Southampton University. This first step towards greater openness is a better version of data.gov, which was launched by President Obama as his first legislative act and is part of an international trend of governments launching open data sites. Freedom of information supporters have found a powerful ally in the internet, with campaigns such as the Guardian's Free our data gaining traction across the world. The Labour government also forced Ordnance Survey to make its map data freely available - significant because those OS regional definitions are used for all data collected by the government. Shadbolt and Berners-Lee's one-year contracts run out in June, but look likely to be continued. Shadbolt says: \"Nobody's talking about putting this genie back in the bottle. It's going to hold people to account in a completely different way.\" Government mother lode The mechanics of how you will exercise your right are still a little hazy - both the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats have talked about extending the Freedom of Information Act. But the principle is clear: entitlement to all raw data collected by government. Of all the datasets that will be released, possibly the most significant is something called the Combined Online Information System (Coins). This is basically a list of everything spent at every level of government in the UK. The Treasury has refused FoI requests for it in the past (it is 24m items long). Now its release is imminent, according to Downing Street sources. \"It is the mother lode for central government,\" says Rufus Pollock, the director of the Open Knowledge Foundation and one of those behind Where Does My Money Go? \u2013 a site that breaks down government spending. He says it could change local reporting for journalists. \"The big deal with Coins is that when you get a figure like \u00a36bn-worth of cuts it is useful, but what you really want to know is much more granular \u2013 how much is spent on police in your parish, for instance. Coins is that kind of data \u2013 the lowest and most granular level that government collects.\" While US local authorities have traditionally published every tiny bit of information, in the UK only Lichfield and Warwickshire have created open data sites so far. This is in contrast to inventive web developers such as the Birmingham residents who stripped the clunky council website and created their own much better version (BCC DIY). At a time when local papers are in crisis, hyper-local websites encourage a new type of street-by-street reporting. And it's open to everyone \u2013 not just trained journalists. Perrin also runs a website for the small part of King's Cross where he lives. One of his recent posts compares rising call-outs for ambulances to assault cases in his ward with declining crime rates \u2013 only possible because the London government's datastore was recently set up to provide exactly that kind of data. \"There is huge untapped potential here, revealing performance measures by making contracts transparent and then using performance data to hold public service providers to account,\" says Perrin. \"This doesn't require advanced numeracy \u2013 the ability to add and subtract is enough.\" This is all a big change for journalists. I once prided myself on my lack of maths knowledge. Now I find myself editing a datajournalism site, the Guardian's datablog: a site where we use Google Spreadsheets to post key datasets. We make the data properly accessible, then encourage our users to take the numbers, produce graphics and applications and help us look for stories. There are others too \u2013 Joanna Geary is a journalist working as a web developer on the Times who runs courses in Ruby (a programming language) for reporters in a London pub. But, as Holovaty says, it's still a rare commodity: \"Not only does it require a shift in thinking, it requires new skillsets that don't necessarily come naturally to liberal-arts types.\" It's not enough just to release the data. It needs interpretation. Says Pollock: \"One of the challenges for the government is that data isn't the same as understanding and analysis \u2013 there's a big gap between them.\" All this data will need people to help interpret it. The investigative reporter Heather Brooke, best known for her research into MPs' expenses, teaches a computer-assisted journalism course at City University. She says students able to demonstrate data analysis skills when they go for jobs have a big advantage. \"A journalist who can understand how to use and analyse data is so powerful \u2013 because most of the public don't understand how to use it and those in power don't know how to make it interesting. The journalist can bridge that gap.\"",
  "title": "Data: Information is power",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "politics/government-data",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/journalism-education",
    "media/investigative-journalism",
    "politics/coins-combined-online-information-system",
    "media/data-journalism"
  ],
  "lead": "Crime, education, health \u2013 over the coming weeks, we will be able to access previously unseen data covering every aspects of our lives. This throws up huge possibilities, and challenges, for journalists. By Simon Rogers",
  "id": "media/2010/may/24/data-journalism",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}