{
  "content": "Google's Malaysian site has been hacked by a Pakistani group calling itself \"Team Madleets\". The search service was replaced with a splash screen crediting the group before it was taken completely offline. The group hacked into the Malaysia Network Information Centre (MYNIC), an agency under the Malaysian ministry of communications and multimedia, and conducted a DNS redirect attack altering Google's Malaysian DNS records to redirect visitors to hacker-controlled servers on Thursday. The site was later taken completely offline. MYNIC is the sole administrator for web addresses that end with .my in Malaysia. A statement on the MYNIC site confirmed the attack and that it had been resolved pending propagation across the internet: We can confirm there was unauthorised redirection of www.google.com.my and www.google.my to another IP address by a group which called themselves TeaM MADLEETS. The problem was alerted in the early morning and MYNIC Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) immediately started to resolve the issue. The domain name www.google.com.my has been restored to their correct information at 7.10 am today and www.google.my is still resolving. DNS records provide a routing lookup for the internet, telling computers where to find servers or other computers. Altering the DNS record can misdirect all the traffic that relies on it. Because changes in DNS records propagate around the internet between servers, their effects can last for days even after the original change has been undone. A Google Malaysia spokesperson said: \"For a short period, some users visiting google.com.my were redirected to a different website; Google services for the google.com.my domain were not hacked. We've been in contact with the organisation responsible for managing this domain name and the issue should be resolved.\" 'We are anti-hackers' A statement on the hacking group's Facebook page claiming responsibility for the hack suggested the attack was random: We feel we need to alert anyone, that we don't hack any country tlds for example google.com.my as a result of any kind of hate, We don't hate anyone, We love all humanity, there is no obvious reason for stamping the tlds. Least the reason is not any kind of hate. Whatever the reason is we can't explain except we love all of you. MadLeets is a Ethical and 1337 White Hat Hackers Community. We are Anti Hackers , we teach how to protect yourself from getting hacked. The hacker group claims to be attacking sites for non-political reasons, simply because it can, and to educate users about lack of security. In a statement released to the technology blog TechCrunch, the hackers said: There's not much reason behind it, only to prove that security is just an illusion. It does not exist. We have no political intentions whatsoever. Google Malaysia was targeted in July along with other high-profile Malaysian sites for Skype, Bing, Kaspersky, Dell and MSN by hackers protesting against the treatment of Bangladeshi workers. AVG, Avira and WhatsApp were the subject of a similar DNS attack on 8 October by a pro-Palestinian hacker group.  \u2022 In June 2012, Google warned users of \"state-sponsored\" hacking of the company's email service.",
  "title": "Google Malaysia taken offline by Pakistani hackers",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/google",
    "world/malaysia",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/internet",
    "world/asia-pacific",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "DNS redirect hack sends unwitting Google Malaysia visitors to hacker group&rsquo;s server before the site is taken completely offline. By Samuel Gibbs",
  "id": "technology/2013/oct/11/google-malaysia-taken-offline-by-pakistani-hackers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}