{
  "content": "The Duchess of Cambridge is topless in the French magazine Closer, and it is too close. The Duchess is no feminist, or anything like one. She is a semi-silent, semi-saintly doll (the recent photographs of her in a headscarf touring the Far East invite comparison with plastic Madonnas), who in her engagement interview clutched her husband's hand and called him \"a good teacher\", as the feminist clock tick-tocked in the wrong direction. To me, her choices are inexplicable \u2013 why educate a woman to be a publicist for a less equal society, where her loveliness is a distraction from other less lovely things? But too many people defend only duchesses they approve of, or duchesses who choose to leave, because they can no longer bear their husbands or people who read Closer. Any sensible debate about the royal family and its corruption, which is rampant, despite claims of modernisation \u2013 their income has risen in this recession, thanks to George Osborne's intervention, and they are as profligate as ever \u2013 does not need a topless duchess on a sunlounger. She deserves criticism for her perfect interpretation of a surrendered wife, a wilting companion to William's barely disguised rage, and also for her obvious materialism. But this is too naked a punishment. She is a reactionary figure, and this is a reactionary crime, even if the editor-in-chief of Closer \u2013 a self-serving monster called Laurence Pieau \u2013 calls it great fun. \"What we see is a young couple, who have just got married, who are very much in love, and who are splendid,\" Pieau said. \"She's a real 21st-century princess,\" Pieau said. \"It's a young woman who is topless, the same as you can see on any beach in France or around the world.\" Why couldn't she just tell the truth and admit that Kate's breasts are profitable, easily converted into gold? Any defence of these photographs is nonsense, including the tired press freedom argument. Poor press freedom, wanting to be free for Kate's breasts, or Harry's bottom, and not more interesting things; the Windsor family is right to sue. We bought the clothes. We do not own the flesh. Others disagree. Kate's body is an object of fascination, and why not when she lives inside an institution in which individuality is a curiosity, and possibly a problem? What else is there to discuss? Her mind? That will remain a mystery, unless she cracks up, which is a damning indictment of our arcane monarchy \u2013 only the mad ones tell the truth. The dress was the story of her wedding, and it was a very strange item to focus on \u2013 even though it told us, with its drooping Dickensian lace, that she would be a meek duchess, not at all like her husband's raging mother, the last casualty of this terrible family. (I would believe the narrative that they do it for duty, not riches, rather more if they were less profligate, less often spotted in the best seats at Wimbledon or the Olympics, and on sunloungers in Provence.) Stories about her clothes surpass stories about the Middle East in volume, as if we want our public discourse to exist in some randomly chosen woman's wardrobe. It was the same with Diana Spencer and Sarah Ferguson: both dressed and undressed in a spotlight, and both left their marriages unhappier than they arrived. The next story will be her pregnancy, or non-pregnancy. Should she conceive, Kate will not give birth in public, like Marie Antoinette, but it will be public. Someone would stick the lens in the womb, if they could; obsession with monarchy is always faintly sadistic in its desire for intimacy \u2013 even if, the end, there is little to know or understand. It's evocative of the last scene in the novel Perfume, where the object of the people's love is so wondrously desirable that they eat him. I used to think that Diana had died because she didn't wear a seat-belt; now I think she was invaded, like Belgium. Perhaps the most offensive thing is that it will do the monarchy no harm, because it is a love of sorts. (What her controlling husband will say to this mistake is another thing.) Enjoy the photographs, or hate them, or both; they will only add to her myth. The worst nightmare for monarchy is indifference. Tabloid tales and tawdry soap opera do not diminish it, if other family members are more stable, or too old to take their clothes off, or to play strip pool. Fascination, no matter the vessel, no matter how squalid, is essential. It is grating to ascribe victimhood to a woman so privileged, especially now, when other victims are many, and growing, but she is a victim. The government's assault on the poor is ever more vicious, even as the coverage of Kate would melt even Edward Longshanks' heart. The London Evening Standard's front-page headline on Thursday was \"Kate's kindness\", accompanied by a photograph of the Duchess sitting with a child who has leukemia; the next step is obviously to imbue her with healing powers, like the old monarchs, who \"cured\" with touch. Her trajectory whizzes on to who knows where. No one can live for long in a euphoric dream, as Auden wrote. It will end badly. tanya.gold@theguardian.com",
  "title": "These photos of Kate will only add to the myth of monarchy | Tanya Gold",
  "lead": "Tanya Gold: It is a love of sorts. The worst nightmare for the royals is indifference. Fascination, no matter how squalid, is essential",
  "tags": [
    "uk/duchess-of-cambridge",
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "uk/uk",
    "uk/prince-william",
    "uk/prince-harry",
    "media/magazines",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "world/france",
    "world/europe-news",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/sep/14/kate-duchess-cambridge-topless-photos",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}