{
  "content": "I'm an inveterate oversharer. I tweet what I eat, I blog my baby photos, I check in on foursquare. It is second nature to me now. But even early adopters didn't start out this way. Most of us are resistant to new technology, and pick it up a few months, or years, down the line, when it seems more mainstream and relevant \u2013 and when friends seem to be using it. That never happened more dramatically than with Facebook, which credits this \"network effect\" for an exponential increase in users after its launch in 2004 to the 500 million it is about to announce. Five years ago a pseudonym was de rigueur, yet now we share the minutiae of what we're reading and thinking, and who we're seeing. We are all sliding up the adoption curve to a future where this behaviour will only become even more extensive, more normal. How did our perception of what is an appropriate public identity shift so far, so quickly? Concern over the dilution of our privacy came to a head in the last week with a sizable faction of Facebook's users rebelling against users' profiles being made publicly accessible by default. Their action may just have pushed Facebook into simplifying its bewildering 150-option privacy settings. Google, meanwhile, confessed that some remarkably lax code-pasting led to its Street View cameras accidentally recording personal data from domestic WiFi networks. Both have rightly prompted outrage and an interrogation of the state of our digital privacy \u2013 and are being scrutinised by regulators. But Facebook and Google are fashionable and intriguing targets for sensational headlines. In truth, most Facebook data is meaningless and conversational \u2013 while most of us are still listed by our home address in BT's online phone book. Assuming none of us this side of the digital divide are willing to disenfranchise ourselves socially and professionally by giving up the internet altogether, we have to be prepared to give up something. The free lunch is over; we pay with money, time or behavioural data. There is a benefit, too, because sharing information about ourselves opens the door to the semantic web; the powerful, personalised internet of the future. Already, from your internet connection to the sites you use, everything you share, search, comment, email, read and watch \u2013 every social signal you make \u2013 is recorded. The only rule you need to protect yourself online is to commit something to the web only if you would be happy for anyone to read it. The internet is indelible. I put a lot online, but I filter. I don't post my home address or about my childminder. Eric Schmidt, Google's chief executive, reminded us this week that much of the five exabytes of digital information the world generates every two days \u2013 equivalent to 100,000 years of DVD-quality video \u2013 is created by our social signals. If you want to experiment and, like me, understand what's possible, you could try Blippy, a Twitter-like service that records every purchase you make and shares it with friends. If you want to take control, try Garlik or ReclaimPrivacy.org. For startups, there's opportunity at every turn. Mark Zuckerberg, the fresh-faced Facebook founder, has a demanding audience he needs to impress, and increasingly expectant investors who want to see a return on those 500 million users. Facebook, in particular, is constantly pushing and testing the boundaries of what its users will accept as public information. It has normalised much of the information-sharing we were once uncomfortable with, and will continue to act as an agent for change. In Google's case, it is tempting to characterise this uniquely influential company as a vast corporate machine with $25bn in the bank, questionable ethics and a world-dominating agenda, quite possibly operating from a hollowed-out volcano somewhere near Mountain View. The truth is far less dramatic. Neither company has a malevolent agenda, but both operate in the fast-moving, demanding bubble of Silicon Valley, with the world's smartest engineers \u2013 and both appear at times almost naive to the implications of the technology that they wield. Google famously wants to index the world's information and, with 65% of the world's search market, is better placed than anyone to help us find and manage what we put online. In the past it has provided advice and created centralised profiles to give users more control, but this all needs to be much more comprehensive and conspicuous. It is beholden on both these companies to educate, inform and empower their users to take control of their digital footprint. The web will only keep developing and keep challenging us in this way. This is not just a phase we are going through. All these issues are only going to intensify, and as they say on Facebook: it's complicated.",
  "title": "The free digital lunch is over. Now we pay with our lives | Jemima Kiss",
  "lead": "Jemima Kiss: We grumble about privacy on Facebook and Google, but the sharing of personal information online is second nature",
  "tags": [
    "technology/google",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/eric-schmidt",
    "technology/mark-zuckerberg",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2010/may/20/facebook-google-privacy-digital-online",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}