{
  "content": "Following a firestorm of criticism from civil society groups in Italy and abroad, and a slap on the wrist by the UN special rapporteur on freedom of expression, the Italian government's draft \"gag law\" has been amended. The original bill restricted the use of wiretaps as an investigative tool and imposed an outright ban on publishing transcripts of telephone conversations and other evidence obtained covertly without permission from a judge. The new bill removes the publishers' liability, but leaves journalists liable if they publish transcripts leaked to them by investigators - something that happens frequently in Italy. At the end of the preliminary criminal investigations a judge will consider whether it's in the public interest for the product of wiretaps to be published, taking into account the privacy rights of those involved. The introduction of this \"filter hearing\" is a step in the right direction and this approach, whereby the public's right to know information is balanced against the right of the individuals to privacy is consistent with decisions of the European court of human rights. Carrying out this exercise in 2003 in the case of Craxi vs Italy, the Strasbourg court found that there was no \"pressing social need\" to publish leaked transcripts of telephone conversations of a former Italian prime minister accused of corruption. It was decided that calls were of a \"strictly private nature\" and had little or no connection with the criminal charges brought against him. Meanwhile, the European court reached a different conclusion in another case in 2006, when it found that civil proceedings brought against a Slovakian radio station interfered with the right to freedom of expression. The court held that, despite airing an illegally recorded conversation between two government ministers, the station's broadcast was acceptable as it did not touch on any aspects of the private lives of the politicians involved. While the new gag bill lets media organisations off the hook, it retains the proposed criminal sanctions against journalists. Those who breach the ban on publishing or broadcasting information obtained by wiretaps face a minimum of three years in prison and fines of up to \u20ac10,000 (\u00a38,200). Such harsh criminal penalties against journalists are an excessive and disproportionate response to the problem of leaked transcripts and they threaten to discourage investigative journalism. If the gag bill becomes law they may be challenged in the European court of human rights. Last but not least, the proposed gag law includes a provision, completely unrelated to wiretaps, which requires the media to publish statements from people who are offended by what is written about them on the web, within 48 hours of a complaint. Failure to comply will result in a fine of up to \u20ac25,000. This move towards regulating websites goes further than the Council of Europe's recommendation, in 2004, that member states should introduce a right to reply, or any other equivalent remedy, in online media. The gag bill, which is still to be debated in the Italian parliament, raises questions about standards of freedom of expression in Italy that should be answered at a European level sooner rather than later. Francesca Fanucci is a London-based human rights lawyer and consultant specialising in freedom of expression and media pluralism",
  "title": "Amended 'gag law' removes publishers' liability - but leaves journalists still facing huge penalties",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/law",
    "law/european-court-of-human-rights",
    "media/medialaw",
    "media/media",
    "world/italy",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Francesca Fanucci: Investigative reporters may face prison sentences and fines of up to \u20ac10,000 for the leaking of illegally recorded information",
  "id": "law/2010/aug/19/amended-italian-gag-law-journalists",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}