{
  "content": "Two polls were published last week on public attitudes to press regulation \u2013 both by YouGov. The one for the Media Standards Trust (MST) produced the conclusion, according to this newspaper's headline at least, that the government's cross-party royal charter plan had \"strong\" public support. Yet the other one, for the Sun, said that only 25% of those polled supported the cross-party charter. The MST poll also found that 79% of us thought there was a serious risk \u2013 if the press went ahead and set up a new self-regulator but it remained \"unrecognised\" by the new charter recognition body \u2013 of a return to unethical and illegal practices; while the Sun poll found that 76% thought there was a risk that any legal system of press regulation set up by parliament would be used by future governments to stop the press from criticising them. In fairness the Sun's own poll also said that 65% of people didn't trust newspapers and journalists to set up a \"fair system\" of press regulation. So more or less totally contradictory then? Well, much as it might appear that way, it isn't really so. The public actually show a remarkable degree of consistency: it's just that what they apparently want is not entirely covered by the options on offer. When you look a little closer at the questions asked, that starts to become clear. If you use \"independent\" about the regulatory system they like it; if you mention politicians or journalists, they don't. Most seem to want a free press, self-regulated independently in a way that will stop the abuses of the past from recurring and which has nothing to do with politicians, with some kind of backstop (maybe of the type Leveson suggested) to ensure that fine words now do not once again turn into self-serving inaction later. However, public attitudes are now weighing less heavily on the minds of those involved than you might imagine. More pressing is whether any of the national or local press will support the cross-party charter at all. The key issue is whether any new self-regulator will seek recognition from the recognition body established as laid out in the charter. And because the charter can only be changed by a two-thirds majority in both houses of parliament and with all the main party leaders' agreement \u2013 a clause introduced to prevent routine political interference \u2013 the press see it as threatening precisely the political meddling it was intended to avoid and therefore as a red-line issue. This week will most likely see draft contracts sent out to all would-be members of the press's new Ipso (Independent Press Standards Organisation) self-regulator. The government and reform campaigners are desperately trying to persuade some papers to stay out of it in the hope that another self-regulator might be built around them. Otherwise the whole cross-party scheme runs the risk of coming undone. Currently the Mail, Mirror, Telegraph and Sun/Times groups are definitely for Ipso. The FT will go into it if the price is right; the Guardian doesn't think it is independent enough but doesn't like the charter; and the Independent is perhaps most likely to stay out of Ipso and might even sign up to the charter, but senior figures fear isolation might result. The Ipso papers hope that setting up a new regulator and having the public see it working will weaken the political drive to find a way of enforcing the charter. Campaigners probably hope that the imminent trials of Rebekah Brooks and Andy Coulson might just remind the public of what the argument about charters is all about. And both groups are aware that the closer the next general election gets, the more public opinion might really start to matter.",
  "title": "Press regulation: public opinion is divided on supervision \u2013 or is it?",
  "lead": "Steve Hewlett: As draft contracts are sent out to would-be Ipso members, the key question is where national and local papers stand",
  "tags": [
    "media/press-regulation",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/local-newspapers",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/sun",
    "media/ipso"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/media-blog/2013/oct/20/press-regulation-public-opinion-ipso",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}