{
  "content": "In the sprawling mega-burbs of Silicon Valley, obsession with the future is a pre-requisite for residence. That's why Carol Bartz, the straight-talking new honcho at Yahoo, surely deserves a prize for making everyone look backwards for a moment. Last week's blast-from-the-past announcement - that she was bringing the axe down on GeoCities - brought wry smiles to anyone who was online a decade ago, and drew some nostalgic laments from around the web. Who can blame people for looking back fondly? After all, the web of 1999 was a very different place: it was a lot smaller, a lot slower and a lot more civil than today's online world (most of the time, at least). Underneath all those elegies for GeoCities, though, was the fact that the service - once a top five web property - became an irrelevance a long time ago; superseded first by blogging services and then by social networking. Worth $3.5bn when Yahoo bought it 10 years ago, the service has now become an object lesson in how to make yourself obsolete by failing to keep up with the times. Somebody who will be thinking hard about that dilemma this week is Owen Van Natta, the former Facebook executive who took over the top job at MySpace on Friday, in a strange little putsch that saw co-founder Chris DeWolfe moved out. MySpace is clearly the cultural inheritor of GeoCities - all garish homepages and emotional teenagers - but last week's reshuffle is, in some way, an attempt to change things by bringing different personalities into the mix. And they are certainly different. When I met Van Natta for the first time in London a while ago (for a long conversation about privacy issues while he was still at Facebook) he struck me as a typical MBA grafter; ambitious, restrained and even a little nervous. DeWolfe, on the other hand, is a charmer whose personal style is languid and comfortable (you'd probably be comfortable if you sold your company for $580m, too). The difference in styles will probably please Rupert Murdoch, but it's not just hard work and ambition that Van Natta needs. The one thing MySpace requires is also the most elusive: momentum. People talk a lot about momentum in various walks of life. In sport, you get \"in the zone\" - when Manchester United overturn a two-goal deficit at halftime to pummel Tottenham 5-2, for example. In politics, the big mo appears when an election campaign - like Barack Obama's - suddenly swells and appears unstoppable. Momentum means a lot in technology, too. No matter how much you've got it today, you need to make sure that you have it tomorrow \u2013 and the way to do that is by being bigger, better and smarter than your rivals. You do that by innovating, being a step ahead of your rivals and by using your size to amplify your dominance (just ask Google, which has done this better than anybody in recent years). A couple of years ago, MySpace was on the brink of all that. It had mindshare, and it had momentum (or at least the chance to achieve it). Now it's been overtaken by Facebook, not only in terms of how many users it has, but also in terms of innovation. Yes, there's money coming in - but there's little thrust to propel things forward. Fixing that will be a difficult job, true. It might even be impossible. But until it happens, the only thing that Van Natta is going to see when he gazes into MySpace's future will be GeoCities staring straight back.",
  "title": "MySpace must look to the past if it wants a future",
  "lead": "The impending closure of GeoCities is an object lesson in how to get it wrong - and something that new MySpace boss Owen Van Natta should think about carefully",
  "tags": [
    "technology/myspace",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/yahoo",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/blog/2009/apr/27/myspace-geocities",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}