{
  "content": "\"We stand today at a crossroads,\" said Woody Allen during an American election campaign. \"One path leads to despair and utter hopelessness. The other leads to total extinction. Let us hope we have the wisdom to make the right choice.\" As the parties fight it out over the national debt and the deficit, the choice on offer in Britain's election doesn't seem much more attractive. One of the problems is that the enormous issue of the economy drowns out quieter, but no less important debate about the way we are governed and the direction of our society. Too many voters arrive at the end of a campaign dazed by the exchanges and with only a hazy idea of the manifesto, for which the winning party suddenly claims a mandate. This list of 10 questions, drawn from contributions to liberty central is intended to take back some of the agenda from the party campaign managers and focus on the key issues of liberty and the state's power, both of which received very little attention in the last three elections. Great changes have been wrought since 1997 and it is generally accepted that the power of the state has increased at the expense of individual liberties. In a very real way this election may be our last chance to review and perhaps reverse these trends. The questions are designed for candidates of all parties so that voters may gain a clear idea of a particular candidate's commitment to individual liberty and rights, as well as their views on specific issues. In the thread two weeks ago RudiGunn asked \"will you vote against ID cards?\", as well as \"will you vote against the illegal DNA database?\" Both appear in the list in a slightly different form. To my mind, Rosieh2 asked the most penetrating question: \"Would you unequivocally support the repeal of all examples of legislation which undermine the presumption of innocence and the equal status of everybody before the law?\" We have blended this with GuyAitchison's \"Do you support the principle of a 'freedom bill' within the first year of the next parliament to repeal every illiberal piece of legislation introduced over the last two decades?\" to form one question. We didn't go as far as Jepho who said: \"Given that CCTV does nothing to prevent crimes being committed, when are all of the CCTV cameras going to be removed?\", but we have included a question about CCTV and the growth of surveillance. Kimpatsu was the inspiration of one question when he observed, \"One worry is the way demonstrations are being oppressed by hostile police who have little regard for the right of people to engage in legitimate political protest and do everything in their power to photograph individuals for their secret databases.\" There is no question devoted HelloMother's demand: \"Will you explicitly reject the canard, much-beloved of the current government and the Home Office, that: 'If you have nothing to hide you have nothing to fear'?\" But that is certainly in the spirit of the whole exercise, while the question from Machinehappydays \u2013\"what what part of my body, mind, morals or choices do you feel government owns or should dictate?\" \u2013 is behind an observation I make at the end of this post. Many thanks for multiple suggestions about questions on the proposed communications database, stop-and-search powers and the effectiveness of the Human Rights Act. All have made it to the final 10 questions. This is your list but I am afraid we had to keep it short so that voters could rattle through the questions in a minute or two, eliciting from the candidate a simple yes or no to each one. It wasn't possible to include such things as the vetting and barring scheme, emergency counter-terror powers that have become a permanent fixture, the use of Ripa laws by local councils to spy on the public, or the vast increase in official powers to enter people's homes without consent. Still, we think there is a useful spread of issues and the answers will tell you a lot about a candidate's true beliefs in this area. The beauty of the list is that it may be used by supporters of all parties because of course concern about civil liberties is not just confined to the Liberal Democrats. Both main parties currently contain good democrats as well as authoritarians who think of civil liberties as a luxury brand for individualists. And there will be a large number of new candidates who are an unknown quantity. As well as pinning down sitting members, it's important that we learn about the beliefs of this new generation and persuade as many as possible to express a public commitment to rights and liberties, in meetings or on their websites. These questions work almost as quickly as a strip thermometer placed on the forehead of the feverish candidate. They give an immediate reading of a person's credentials as a democrat, but behind them are big themes, which in this one precious moment we have a chance to examine \u2013 the erosion of respect for the innocent citizen, for example, or the trend of the state to intervene in areas of personal choice, even parenting. There is the state's growing sense of entitlement over our personal data, the multiple security lapses in official databases, the conversion of public space into \"state space\" watched by millions of unregulated cameras, the erosion of defendants rights and the evidence, from such disparate things as tax regulations and control orders that the state is willing to judge a person's guilt and bad intentions without normal legal procedure. There is much to discuss and this time it's important we find out exactly who we are voting for. Here are your questions. Download the above postcard-sized pdf of the list and print it. When given the opportunity, ask your MP to answer the questions and keep us updated, either on this thread or by email: liberty.central@guardian.co.uk. You can also take a photograph of your completed card and email it to us - if enough cards are sent, a gallery of your pictures will be created",
  "title": "Civil liberties: what to ask every candidate | Henry Porter",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "law/human-rights",
    "world/surveillance",
    "politics/idcards",
    "uk/police",
    "law/law",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/internet",
    "world/protest",
    "politics/labour",
    "politics/conservatives",
    "law/control-orders",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Henry Porter: Download this postcard-sized list of 10 questions and quiz prospective MPs to establish their commitment to civil liberties",
  "id": "commentisfree/henryporter/2010/apr/06/civil-liberties-ask-candidates",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}