{
  "content": "Leo XIII, on the whole a reforming pope, never quite came to terms with the bible in the vernacular. It offered, he felt, a subversive opportunity for people to make their own judgments. There is a little of the pope about the child psychologist Dr Tanya Byron, who yesterday proposed a national strategy for internet safety. Like the pope, who assumed sin, Dr Byron's day job with dysfunctional families risks distorting her perception of the problem she is tackling. It is possible for paedophiles to groom children through chatrooms, but it is not likely. Some computer games rely on such extreme brutality that it is reasonable to doubt that it is good for children to play them. But Dr Byron, celebrated for her TV toddler-taming strategies, does not make a convincing case for the full panoply of controls she proposes - government commission, national strategy and parents' panel - as a proportionate response to a problem that almost certainly relates more to the family than the internet. It is not the availability of the information that is the problem; it is the state of mind of the person who reads it. Parents are continually bombarded with warnings and advice and the headline drama of the rare tragedy when things go wrong. The unspoken but repeated implication is that parents have such a degree of responsibility for their children's lives that only blanket protection is acceptable. It is time for some rebalancing, an acknowledgment that good parenting is not only about safety but also about freedom. A majority of children now have the freedom to go online at home. Some will use it to answer some of their more prurient questions. For others it might be a vital source of information about a real problem. But for most it is an important educational tool and a way to experience the outside world, to show off a bit, to learn some more. Its glory is its open access. It is an uncensored, unmediated space, awash with unexpected information, smuggled facts, tedious gossip, mad conspiracy theories and the wilder imaginings of small communities of very minority interests. It is like the real world, but better. It is also less well signposted, easily accessible and - possibly - dangerously anonymous. Occasionally it delivers information or images that people would prefer not to have. And like all great inventions it is possible to use it for evil as well as good. It is also a world that is still treated gingerly by many parents. Their children have grafted it on to their lives so that using it for research and communication and exploration are second nature. It is the parents rather than the children who have the problem. It is parents who are confused by the offers of parental controls and uncertain about the ratings on computer games (or bullied into ignoring them) and the scope for online gaming. It is parents who worry about stranger danger in chatrooms when most kids know just what information it is safe to give out and what is not - and tend to regard chatrooms as a space for losers. Children who lock themselves in their rooms for hours at a time probably have more than the normal teenage troubles, and need more than parental controls on a computer to handle them. Of course it is sensible to make it clear to parents how to apply limits to children's surfing, and to have a clear and stringent system of ratings for computer games. But parenting is about helping children to do potentially dangerous things safely. Close attention to Annexe D of the report suggests that most of the people Dr Byron spoke to think so too. This report has an all too familiar air: it promises to address a tabloid concern with low-cost proposals. Under the guise of alleviating this concern, it fuels parental anxiety without tackling the issue of what makes kids vulnerable: peer pressure, commercialisation and bullying. It is not a bad report, just an unnecessary one.",
  "title": "Leader: Internet angst",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "society/children",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/society",
    "society/childprotection",
    "politics/politics",
    "technology/politics",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Leader: It is time for some rebalancing, an acknowledgment that good parenting is not only about safety but also about freedom",
  "id": "commentisfree/2008/mar/28/internet.children1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}