{
  "content": "Anybody trying to gauge the influence of News International newspapers across British public life could do worse than start with the guest list for Rebekah Wade's wedding last month. Wade, former editor of the News of the World, current editor of the Sun and incoming chief executive of News International, married racehorse trainer and author Charlie Brooks in private. But her wedding party the next day at the Brooks estate in Oxfordshire was less low-key. Not many events would see Gordon Brown and David Cameron sipping champagne alongside TV presenter Jeremy Clarkson and Madonna's ex-husband Guy Ritchie. Rupert Murdoch and his son James attended with Les Hinton, the former News International chairman who now runs Dow Jones. Wade's friend Matthew Freud, the PR entrepreneur, was there too, along with his wife Elisabeth, Murdoch's daughter. She also made room for rivals of the Murdoch empire such as Paul Dacre, the editor of the Daily Mail. Wade has resented publicity about her personal life, and was said to have been angered by a profile in Tatler portraying an extravagant lifestyle in which she and Brooks partied on boats with aristocrats and arranged day trips from Oxford to Venice \"for lunch at Harry's Bar\" before a return to London \"for dinner at Wiltons in Jermyn Street\". Wade's influence stems from the bonds of friendship that her editorships at News International have allowed her to establish. A regular guest at Downing Street and Chequers, she developed close friendships with Labour figures including David Blunkett, Sarah Brown and Tony and Cherie Blair. Her friendships cross the political divide: she was credited with smoothing relations between Cameron and Murdoch. Last night it was Hinton's turn to enjoy a wedding party at a top London venue, but there was no sign of Wade or Andy Coulson. There were few big political name at the event at the Wallace Collection but one who did come, the immigration minister Phil Woolas, said Cameron should sack Coulson. There was support for News International from former Sun editor Kelvin McKenzie, who said: \"I can officially tell you it is a load of socialist claptrap. I know Andy [Coulson], he had nothing to do with it. It was a shock to him and it cost him his job.\"",
  "title": "Rebekah Wade: from celebrity party to political parties, a woman of influence",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/police",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Influence stems less from her superficial - if glamorous - connections than the bonds of friendship she has established",
  "id": "politics/2009/jul/09/rebekah-wade-news-international",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}