{
  "content": "The Daily Star Sunday, perspicacious as ever, yesterday carried a list under the headline superinjunction exclusive. It was, of course, a false headline. The overwhelming majority of cases it mentions are injunctions plain and simple, anonymised gagging orders that have been issued by courts down the years. The paper admits as much, stating that only 12 of the 80 it claims to have \"discovered\" are \"true superinjunctions, about which no details can be reported.\" The DS Sunday, Britain's most irrelevant red-top, casts itself as a participant in some high-minded campaign against a \"bonkers\" and/or \"crackpot\" legal system It boasts of publishing \"the most comprehensive list ever\" by \"detailing\" 50 injunctions with their amusing court-appointed alphabetic pseudonyms. Should you wish to join the paper's press freedom crusade to expose the bedroom secrets of the rich and famous (allegedly), here's a random selection: AMM v HXW: TV star who denies he had sex with his ex-wife after remarrying. ASG v GSA: A famous married dad who had an affair with a girl he met at a nightclub. CC v AB: Married celebrity with young kids who had affair with woman for several months wins order preventing her husband from spilling the beans. CDE &amp; FGH v LMN: Man who often appears on television (and his wife) over details of phone, Twitter and text sex between him and a single mum. ETK: Married actor who had affair with married colleague. She was sacked after he told bosses he didn't want to see her any more. RST v UVW: A man of \"some public reputation\" who slept with a hooker \"two or three times\" a decade ago. Day after day, newspapers are plugging away at this subject. But to what avail? Do they expect the judiciary to break the law? Do they expect parliament to intervene? Aside from the Trafigura case (see explanation here), where is the proof that the people are being robbed of the right to know stories genuinely in the public interest? I was therefore saddened to read John Kampfner's article today, Privacy decisions can't just be left to judges and politicians. I share with him an enduring desire for the maximum possible exercise of freedom of expression. I agree with him about the need for libel reform in order to enable greater media licence. But his call for a debate on the meaning of privacy ignores the fact that we have been debating the topic since the 1980s, when Clive (now Lord) Soley first frightened newspapers into putting their house in order and, in so doing, led to the creation of the Press Complaints Commission. Similarly, his call for \"a happy medium\" overlooks that editors and judges have been seeking that for years. They have been aware of the need for a compromise between a free-for-all (which former Sun editor Kelvin MacKenzie unashamedly advocates) and a total clamp on press freedom. In practice, both the PCC (as its director pointed out in his interview with me) and the judges have been working out ways to protect privacy while protecting press freedom. And, in essence (even if we sometimes disagree with both of them over specific cases), that's the only sensible solution. There cannot be a one-size-fits-all, hard-and-fast, inflexible rule. Each case, within certain parameters, has to be treated on its merits. That reflects reality, allowing for changes over time, for those cases where celebrities have been guilty of gross hypocrisy, for times when there is a coincidence between stories that are both interesting to the public and in the public interest. Everything else is hysterical nonsense and reeks, incidentally, of commercial need rather than ethical principle. I am sorry that John Kampfner and Index on Censorship cannot grasp this point.",
  "title": "Superinjunctions: both the Daily Star Sunday and Index on Censorship are wrong",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "law/superinjunctions",
    "media/daily-star-sunday",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/sun",
    "media/kelvin-mackenzie",
    "world/trafigura-probo-koala",
    "media/pcc",
    "media/medialaw",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade: The hysteria over gagging orders creates very odd bedfellows",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2011/may/16/superinjunctions-daily-star-sunday",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}