{
  "content": "We live in a time of competitive mawkishness. The most anodyne advert featuring an animated bear woken up by an animated alarm clock can send us into paroxysms of weeping, while the backstory of a talent-show contestant whose nan is going blind will leave us reaching for the Kleenex. So it was last week that my Facebook newsfeed was suddenly clogged full of \"misty-eyed\" status updates. It was not, for once, the result of one of those regular appeals to find strangers met in extreme circumstances (\"When I dropped my house keys in a puddle, Bob gave them back to me. Where is Bob now? Does he know how he changed the course of my life?\"). No, it was the Facebook 10-year video. In order to mark a decade of pokes and photo-tagging, Mark Zuckerberg and his minions gave us all the opportunity to compile a video of our time on Facebook: a montage of \"most-liked\" posts and life-moment photographs. I loved this idea. After all, I am one of those people who cries at adverts featuring animated bears. But when I watched my Facebook video, I was curiously unmoved. Perhaps it's because I haven't had children yet, but the whole thing seemed so shallow: a series of photos of me with a pile of my own books that my friends had dutifully \"liked\" a few times before getting on with the more serious business of finding House-key Bob. My life over the last seven years had been reduced to a series of images, ranked according to how many times other people had given an electronic thumbs-up. The events selected by a computer program to convey what I'd been doing since I joined Facebook in 2007 were not those I would necessarily have chosen myself. And many of my most personal reminiscences are not ones I have shared online. They stay locked away in my internal data bank, otherwise known as my head. Life is not a computer-generated slideshow but a conglomeration of ups and downs, highs and lows and photographs you never want anyone to see. In my mind, I remember the sad as well as the happy. This is part of the necessary calibration of human experience: you can't hope to understand one without the counterpoint of the other. Context is key. Texture is all. Computers don't get that. The single image can never hope to convey it. The news that Hitachi has developed a computer chip ID card to monitor employees, calculating everything from how many seconds they spend on the loo to how energetically they participate in group discussions, is part of the same heart-sinking trend. What about thinking time? Or the creative solutions that come while chatting to colleagues over coffee? Our worth as human beings cannot be neatly packaged into units of efficiency. Yet, in an era of instant communication and visual marketing, we're increasingly encouraged to reduce our understanding to a powerful image or three-minute YouTube clip. A few days after Facebook launched its 10-year video, ex-PC Mike Baillon found himself the centre of media attention. A tribunal had ruled he was constructively dismissed after a video of him smashing a pensioner's car window with a truncheon was leaked on the web and viewed more than 30 million times. There was an understandable outcry over the amount of compensation \u2013 \u00a3440,000 \u2013 which meant everyone watched the video again. The kneejerk response was to laugh at how ridiculous PC Baillon appeared. But reading further into the incident, another story emerged \u2013 PC Baillon was in pursuit of a driver who had refused to pull over after speeding; when the video emerged, he was removed from his frontline position because the force felt his \"judgment may be impaired\"; he was allegedly subjected to 18-months' worth of barracking from senior officers, including a deeply personal attack about his wife's miscarriage. There is a danger in believing one decontextualised image or video clip tells the whole story because life is subtle and complex and messy and brilliant and awful all at the same time. You can't wrap that up in a neat little slideshow \u2013 with or without an animated bear. Agonise over a dress? I'd much rather mull over my metaphors In case some of us don't want to judge a book by its cover but rather by what covers its author, Vanity Fair magazine has thoughtfully compiled a list of the top 10 best-dressed male and female writers. Martin Amis, we are told, owns \"a Mick Jagger-esque wardrobe\" suggestive of \"both erudition and a lingering bad-boy gruffness\". Lionel Shriver's \"unapologetic and ascetic\" sartorial bent is reflected in her uncompromising prose style, while Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie \"often mixes and matches in a spirited, precocious fashion\". JK Rowling is given a nod for her \"eye-popping designer dresses\", while John le Carr\u00e9 gets a shout-out for his impeccably tailored suits, as does Tom Wolfe: \"Every detail, from wingtip to pocket square, is perfectly executed, giving him the year-round appearance of an early 20th-century southern gentleman.\" As an author myself, I have to say that I feel somewhat dispirited by this turn of events. Part of the joy of writing books is that you can sit at your computer agonising over metaphors and correct conjugation while still in your pyjamas and sipping a mug of cooling tea. Forget \"best dressed\" \u2013 most of us are barely capable of getting dressed in the first place. Best dressing gown might be more apt. Aidan Burley's deeds prove he's not fit to hold office I often wonder how political parties go about selecting their candidates. What happens at the interview? Are they asked to display a requisite number of Tony Blair-inspired hand gestures (lightly clenched fist to denote conviction; open palm to convey a listening spirit; pointed finger for controlled anger etc)? I pose the question because I'd previously assumed that one of the key things to discover is whether the candidate has an inclination to think that wearing Nazi uniform is just a bit of harmless fun. This could be done quite easily, perhaps in the form of multiple choice: \"Your friend asks you to organise a stag do. Do you: a) Have a quiet drink at your constituency pub, boosting the local economy and ensuring positive headlines? b) Politely decline, saying your position as MP means you need to steer clear of booze and strippers for the time being? c) Agree, buy a Nazi uniform for the groom, stand in a bar surrounded by your friends chanting \"Hitler, Hitler\" and be introduced by a mate to a tabloid reporter as \"the MP for Berlin East\"? For unfathomable reasons, the Tory MP for Cannock Chase, Aidan Burley, chose option C. After a lengthy investigation into the incident in December 2011 and further revelations in the press, Mr Burley has finally announced he is to stand down at the next election. In the interim, he found time to tweet that the opening ceremony of the London 2012 Olympics was \"leftie multicultural crap\". Maybe he would have preferred something a little more monocultural and right wing, such as a jolly Nuremberg-style rally? The standard response from contrarian-minded types to any criticism of someone wearing a Nazi uniform is that Mel Brooks did it in The Producers and isn't it better to laugh at our monsters, rather than taking them seriously? But Mel Brooks had satirical intent. Burley's boorish friends were drunken oafs with a staggering disregard for the feelings of others. That it has taken Burley so long to see the wrongness of what he did suggests that, apart from anything else, he is simply too stupid to be trusted with our votes.",
  "title": "Why did my Facebook life leave me so unmoved? | Elizabeth Day",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Elizabeth Day: Not every picture tells the whole story, as the case of ex-PC Mike Baillon proves",
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/feb/09/facebook-aidan-burley-martin-amis",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}