{
  "content": "It seems fitting that on the day that the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History unveiled its Giving in America exhibit \u2014 with Bill Gates and Warren Buffett presiding \u2014 Mark Zuckerberg, the CEO of Facebook, and his wife Priscilla Chan, made a claim for the inauguration of a new chapter in the history of philanthropy, one dominated by the mushrooming fortunes of Silicon Valley. In a post on Facebook to their newborn daughter Max, the couple announced that they would turn over 99% of their Facebook shares \u2014 with a current value of around $45bnn \u2014 \"during our lives\" to advance a mission of \"advancing human potential and promoting equality for all children in the next generation\". This is a big deal, one of the largest philanthropic pledges ever made. But how much of a rupture it represents in the tradition of modern US philanthropy isn't entirely clear. The Smithsonian might not need to add another display case just yet. It's worth dwelling a bit on that phrase \"during our lives,\" for with it, Zuckerberg and Chan place themselves at the forefront of an important development in the philanthropic sector: the Giving While Living movement. It's not exactly new: more than a century ago, in his Gospel of Wealth, the steel magnate Andrew Carnegie sought to steer millionaires away from the charitable bequest toward warm-blooded inter vivos giving. Only in this way could they assume active stewardship over the disbursement of their fortunes, applying the knowledge, expertise and temperament that gained them their piles toward the difficult task of giving them away. This idea has once again come into vogue, but with a significant new twist. The tech and finance booms have allowed individuals to accumulate enormous sums of money at a startlingly young age. So there is even more giving and even more living to do than ever before. Zuckerberg, 31, and Chan, 30, are not just young; they have also begun their philanthropic careers at an early age (they have already given away more than $1.5 bn). Philanthropy used to be a sort of valedictory endeavor, a vocation taken up after the money had been made, like golf or an ambassadorship. Gates and Buffett for the most part have followed that traditional pattern. Gates, for instance, didn't turn to philanthropy till he was in his mid 40s and then left Microsoft to devote himself entirely to his foundation's good works. But increasingly, with today's corps of newly minted billionaires, the lines between entrepreneur and philanthropist have been erased. It's all one single, synchronous identity. In a statement, Facebook made a virtue of those blurred boundaries, announcing that Zuckerberg and Chan \"believe in pursuing philanthropy concurrently with pursuing their professional careers\". Zuckerberg himself made clear that he wasn't going to loosen his reigns on Facebook, reassuring skittish shareholders that he would continue to serve as the company's CEO \"for many, many years to come\". In a statement, the company disclosed that Zuckerberg would not dispose of more than $1bn of Facebook stock in a year for at least the next three years. And although the full details are not yet known, initial press reports suggest that channeling their giving through a newly created limited liability company called the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, rather than through a charitable trust, would assist Zuckerberg in maintaining control of the shares he has pledged. On the one hand, with the announcement, Zuckerberg secures his status as the nation's pre-eminent tech philanthropist, a breed that is increasingly dominating the ranks of the nation's largest benefactors (three of the top five givers last year in the US came from the tech world, according to the Chronicle of Philanthropy). Zuckerberg and Chan's announcement hit on many of the touchstones of tech giving: the gigantic sums involved and the oversized ambitions conjured; the push toward technological and technocratic solutions; the comfort with using the market for philanthropic ends, and; the attraction toward for-profit mechanisms (perhaps another reason for their employment of a limited liability company is that the couple signaled their intentions to direct some funds toward for-profit investments). Another hallmark of tech giving can be detected in the fact there was no indication that the pledge would prompt the construction of a massive bureaucracy of giving, such as the Gates Foundation: this generation of tech givers prefers lean institutions. As far as the letter to Max was concerned, their giving would be a strictly family affair. There's a certain poignancy to the sight of Zuckerberg redeeming the figure of the Silicon Valley philanthropist with a heartfelt missive to his young daughter, because over the last decade, no one has done more to tarnish that figure's reputation. His best-known philanthropic intervention to date remains his gift of $100 million to the Newark public school system in 2010 \u2014 announced with great fanfare on Oprah. Though there is some debate over the extent to which the gift improved educational outcomes in the city, what is indisputable is how quickly public opinion soured on the gesture. Zuckerberg hoped to make Newark a model for education reform, but it became a cautionary tale of another sort. His gift came to represent for many the worst of philanthropic hubris \u2014 an impatient, big-footed effort to parachute into a city he knew little about, with a team of high-priced consultants and scheming politicians, and with little consultation with the families and teachers he purported to be saving from rotten schools. The blowback was fairly intense \u2014 captured in Dale Rissakoff's New Yorker piece fine book, The Prize\u2014 and there was even some concern that it would lead other tech givers to shrink from similarly ambitious philanthropic gambits. But this doesn't seem to have happened, at least not for Zuckerberg. He has clearly taken the public flogging to heart. He and Chan have directed much of their subsequent educational philanthropy to San Francisco, a city in which they have deeper roots, and they have repeatedly emphasized the importance of soliciting community feedback, a theme they play up in their Facebook letter. \"We must engage directly with the people we serve,\" they write to Max. This doesn't sound like the caricature of the Silicon Valley benefactor. In fact, somewhat paradoxically, there are notes of humility creeping into their giving at precisely the moment when it is glorying in its massive scale. In this and in other ways, Zuckerberg and Chan play somewhat against type. Tech giving, for instance, is often lambasted for demanding immediate results, but the couple make clear that they are in this for the long-haul. \"The greatest challenges require very long time horizons and cannot be solved by short term thinking,\" they insist, stating that they plan on making investments that might take a century to come to fruition. And they are quick to point out how much they have to learn about the realm of philanthropy from existing \"experts\" in the field, without assuming that their own expertise in the tech sector automatically transfers over (and without the blithe celebration of philanthropic risk-taking and mistake-making that defined Sean Parker's recent ode to \"hacker philanthropy\"). One of the reasons why Zuckerberg wanted to begin giving now, he explained in a comment on his Facebook page, is so that he can start learning. \"If we want to be good at [philanthropy] in 10-15 years, we should start now,\" he wrote. It's way too early to predict whether Zuckerberg and Chan will in fact ever be \"good\" at philanthropy or whether their style and strategies will spread to the sector at large. And there are plenty of additional dangers that lurk in the announcement \u2013 in the letter, for instance, the couple commit themselves to advocacy towards policy change at a moment when the power of wealth over the polity is a particular sensitive topic. But what is clear is how complex, consequential and difficult to characterize the new generation of large-scale philanthropy has become. The Smithsonian's curators have their work cut out for them. Benjamin Soskis is a Fellow at the Center for Nonprofit Management, Philanthropy and Policy at George Mason University and a frequent contributor to the Chronicle of Philanthropy.",
  "title": "Will Zuckerberg and Chan's $45bn pledge change philanthropy?",
  "lead": "Today's tech billionaires blur the line between philanthropist and entrepreneur. Time will tell if Facebook's CEO and his wife will succeed in doing good \u2013 but by then they might have changed the act of giving forever ",
  "tags": [
    "technology/mark-zuckerberg",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/philanthropy",
    "media/media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "society/society",
    "technology/billgates",
    "technology/silicon-valley"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2015/dec/02/mark-zuckerberg-priscilla-chan-45bn-pledge-change-philanthropy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}