{
  "content": "Barrett Brown, the activist-journalist whose prosecution linked to the 2012 Stratfor email hack sparked first-amendment concerns among internet activists, lawyers and publishers, has agreed to a plea deal, according to Wired. A gag order on Brown's case prevents both sides from providing details, a spokeswoman for federal prosecutors in the Northern District of Texas told the Guardian. As a result neither Brown's lawyer, Ahmed Ghappour, nor prosecutors would provide details on the developments. Brown, 32, was originally charged with 17 counts, mostly relating to a link he posted in an internet chat room that linked to a website that contained some hacked email addresses and credit card details that had been unloaded from the Stratfor website. He then reposted the link on his own internet chat room, Project PM. Federal documents suggest recent movement in the case, but no details are publicly available. According to one federal court document, signed by Brown, he waived his right to be indicted \u2013 or not indicted \u2013 by a grand jury, in favour of \"proceeding by information instead of by indictment\". Another said a telephone conference was held on the case on Wednesday. Another document filed by the government this week hinted at the detail of the deal, according to Wired. In that document, which overrides two of Brown's previous three indictments, the government charged the journalist with two crimes. The new indictment alleges Brown's involvement as an accessory to the Statfor hack by \"creating confusion regarding the identity of the hacker\". The two charges substantially reduce the prison time Brown could face at sentencing, which had previously been estimated at up to 70 years. Brown also communicated with representatives of Stratfor \"in a manner that diverted attention away\" from the hacker, the government said. It is unclear if that individual, identified by the authorities as \"o\", is Jeremy Hammond, a member of the loosely affiliated Anonymous collective and the convicted Stratfor hacker \u2013 or another individual. The second charge, obstructing the execution of a search warrant, relates to attempts by Brown and his mother to hide a laptop during a search of her home in March 2012. Brown's mother was also charged with obstruction and given six months probation. Brown is also facing charges relating to threats he allegedly made to an FBI agent; it is unclear, however, if the plea agreement will cover that charge. Wired reported that if it does and the two cases are combined, the maximum statutory sentence Brown could now face \"would likely be five years\". Last month, the government dropped 11 key charges against him, including the most controversial charge, that he transferred stolen property by posting a hyperlink to a website containing hacked material. It was this charge that sparked criticism of prosecutors from internet freedom activists and others, who warned it would set a precedent that would dampen a free internet culture of linking to other sources and stories. Federal prosecutors have given no further information about why they decided to drop the counts. Supporters of Brown, who wrote for the Guardian and other publications before his arrest in 2012, put out an email on Thursday afternoon welcoming the developments. The email said the developments marked a \"big step towards resolution of the tangled and complex case\". In the email, Kevin Gallagher, the director of Brown's legal defence fund, said: \"The Barrett Brown who I know and call my friend has never been one to compromise with the government.\" \"But in this instance, I think he recognises that taking this case before a jury in conservative Texas is a needless roll of the dice. In fact, I think this whole thing would have been settled long ago, if not for the fact that the government had filed excessive and meritless charges which they later dropped. \"I'm pleased that the parties were able to reach this agreement. Although in principle he shouldn't have to plea to anything, this spares everyone the spectacle of a costly trial, and the bottom line is that Barrett will be coming home \u2013 as he's already served 19 months unnecessarily.\"",
  "title": "Barrett Brown 'agrees plea deal in Stratfor email hack case' \u2013 report",
  "lead": "Wired says activist-journalist agrees deal but federal spokeswoman cites gag order",
  "tags": [
    "law/us-constitution-and-civil-liberties",
    "law/law",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/anonymous",
    "technology/cybercrime",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "world/2014/apr/03/barrett-brown-plea-deal-stratfor-wired",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}