{
  "content": "There are hundreds of George Bushes, scores of Fidel Castros, and dozens of Hugo Ch\u00e1vezes, all with prank profiles on the social networking website Facebook, but when someone tried to pass him or herself off as the president of Guyana the real president didn't see the funny side. Some world leaders, including Nicolas Sarkozy, have genuine Facebook profiles boasting thousands of supporters, but Bharrat Jagdeo, the leader of Guyana since 1999, is not one of them. A fake profile of the president attracted almost 200 supporters before Jagdeo lodged a complaint and called in the police. He issued a terse statement pointing out that he is not, and never has been, a member of Facebook, or any other social networking site. It said: \"The office of the president is concerned that someone has impersonated President Bharrat Jagdeo on the community-based website Facebook.\" It added: \"The public is being asked to ignore this impersonation.\" On Wednesday Jagdeo asked the Guyana police to track down the impersonator. The bogus profile has since been taken down. It included two photo albums: one of the Berbice bridge in Guyana and one of international leaders, some with Jagdeo. The government statement complained that someone had also impersonated Jagdeo on the networking site in July. Facebook said that under the network's terms of use members are banned from attempting to \"impersonate any person or entity\". The presidential impersonator has not been found. Last year Facebook removed two fake profiles of Bilawal Bhutto, the son of Benazir Bhutto, the former Pakistani president who was assassinated in December 2007. When a computer programmer in Morocco set up a bogus profile of the brother of Morocco's king, Mohammed VI, he was jailed for three years.",
  "title": "Fake Facebook profile angers Guyana president Bharrat Jagdeo",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/world",
    "technology/facebook",
    "world/guyana",
    "world/americas"
  ],
  "lead": "Bharrat Jagdeo fails to see the funny side after being impersonated on social networking site",
  "id": "world/2009/jan/02/facebook-guyana-president-bharrat-jagdeo",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}