{
  "content": "A group of hackers claiming to have attacked websites around the world, including the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency and the US Senate, has disbanded, according to a message posted on its website. LulzSec, which consists of only six hackers, said it was disbanding after 50 days \"disrupting and exposing corporations, governments, often the general population itself, and quite possibly everything in between, just because we could\". \"Lulz\" is internet slang for laughs. As a parting shot, the group released a broad mixture of data apparently hacked from sources as diverse as computer games companies, a private investigator, the Nato bookshop and the internet giant AOL. The largest group of documents \u2013 338 files \u2013 appeared to be internal documents from the US telecoms company AT&amp;T, detailing its building of a new wireless broadband network which is set to go live this summer. LulzSec had previously claimed to have released internal data from Arizona's department of public safety in protest at its alleged \"anti-immigrant\" policies, and hacked a website associated with the FBI and another run by the CIA. It also released data from the games firms Nintendo and Sony. The decision to close seemed abrupt and followed a series of blows which saw one of its alleged members arrested and charged in the UK under the Criminal Law Act and Computer Misuse Act by the e-crime unit of the Metropolitan police. The alleged identities of two others were posted online by a rival hacker, and internal chat logs between the hackers were leaked, revealing that two members had quit because they felt the hacking had gone too far. On Friday night, a LulzSec member known as Whirlpool indicated that the group was hoping to mount more serious attacks in the future, telling the BBC's Newsnight: \"At some point, our operations will have to veer onto the more serious side of things\". Early on Saturday evening, LulzSec announced on its Twitter feed: \"Monday release is being planned. We're still here, fine sirs.\" But around six hours later, the group announced its demise. LulzSec signed off with an admission that it had been motivated by little more than the pursuit of \"the raw, uninterrupted, chaotic thrill of entertainment and anarchy\" and the desire to \"selflessly entertain others\". Kevin Mitnick, a security consultant and former hacker, said the group had probably concluded that the more it kept up its activities, the greater the chance was that a member would make a mistake enabling the authorities to catch them. LulzSec has inspired copycat groups around the world, he said, meaning similar attacks were likely to continue. \"They can sit back and watch the mayhem and not risk being captured,\" he added. In a message on its website, LulzSec wrote: \"For the past 50 days we've been disrupting and exposing corporations, governments, often the general population itself, and quite possibly everything in between, just because we could.\" The statement said the group believed strongly in a hacking movement that has become known as the \"anti-sec\" movement. \"We hope, wish, even beg, that the movement manifests itself into a revolution that can continue on without us,\" the statement said. \"The support we've gathered for it in such a short space of time is truly overwhelming, and not to mention humbling. \"Please don't stop. Together, united, we can stomp down our common oppressors and imbue ourselves with the power and freedom we deserve.\" The group's website came under attack by a hacker who managed to temporarily disable it on Friday. There was speculation that a self-professed \"patriot hacker\" called Jester was responsible. Jester had previously attacked Wikileaks, the organisation that leaked hundreds of thousands of classified US government documents last year, and turned his attention to LulzSec, describing the hackers as \"common bullies\". Last week, he posted documents purported to reveal the identities of two of the group. At least two of the group's members quit after it hacked an FBI-affiliated site on 3 June. Records of online chatter between the conspirators, obtained by the Guardian, showed that hackers by the names of Recursion and Devrandom were \"not up for the heat\". Ryan Cleary, from Wickford, Essex, was arrested as part of a Scotland Yard and FBI investigation into LulzSec and charged with hacking the website of the UK Serious Organised Crime Agency. The 19-year-old's lawyer told City of Westminster magistrates court that he suffers from a form of autism, along with agoraphobia. He has been accused of attacking the website of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry in November 2010 and the British Phonographic Industry's website in October. Observers believe LulzSec is an offshoot of Anonymous, a larger, more loosely-organised group that attempts to mobilise hackers for attacks on targets it considers immoral, such as oppressive Middle Eastern governments and opponents of WikiLeaks.",
  "title": "LulzSec says it is to disband",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/lulzsec",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Hacking organisation announces move on Twitter after attacks on entertainment company and law enforcement agency sites",
  "id": "technology/2011/jun/26/lulzsec-says-it-is-to-disband",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}