{
  "content": "Authors including Joanne Harris, Neil Gaiman and Sarah Waters are teaming up to celebrate the appeal of the short story in a new campaign aimed at persuading the BBC not to cut back on its coverage of the literary form. The BBC announced in July that it would reduce Radio 4's short story output from three a week to one a week from next spring \u2013 a significant reduction from 2008, when five short stories were broadcast weekly. Following an outcry from prominent names including Stephen Fry and Joanna Lumley, and more than 5,000 people signing a petition protesting against the cuts, the corporation said it would keep a second short story slot. But supporters are continuing to campaign for no reduction to the current volume of output, and signatories to the petition now top 6,600. Starting today at 11am and running every Wednesday for the next five weeks, the Society of Authors is launching a weekly short story \"tweetathon\", which it believes to be a never-before-attempted collaboration between top authors and tweeters. It will see the authors Simon Brett, Ian Rankin, Gaiman, Harris and Waters provide the first line of a story on Twitter each week, with tweeters invited to complete the next four sentences using the hash tag #soatale to create a short story in 670 characters. Judges including the novelist Jane Thynne, dramatist and screenwriter Colin Teevan and Ian Skillicorn of National Short Story Week will select the best line each hour, with the resulting short story to be published on the Society of Authors' website. Rankin kicked off the campaign today, with the line \"I woke up on the floor of a strange bedroom, clutching a single bullet in my right hand. I couldn't see any sign of a gun\". Tweeters have 30 minutes to submit their tweets, with the best line to be selected by judges before the next line is tweeted. Sentences cannot exceed the 140-character limit, including the hash tag #soatale. \"I got my real start with short stories on Radio 4; I would hate for future generations of writers not to have the same chance,\" said the Rebus creator. Chocolat author Harris urged the station to \"keep the short stories coming\". \"So many people rely on R4 to provide the cultural focus that so many other stations have wholly abandoned. Please don't let them down now,\" she said. Society of Authors general secretary Nicola Solomon called the tweetathon \"a contemporary celebration of the continuing power and appeal of the short story\". \"We are concerned not only at the loss of half the short story slots but also at the proposed new timing: up to two years ago and for almost the last 40 years there were opportunities to hear the short story every weekday on Radio 4,\" she said. \"Under the new plans the only weekday offering would be at 3:45pm on a Friday. We believe that it will be difficult to give sufficient impact to the short story when the scheduling is so piecemeal.\" Waters, whose novels have been shortlisted for the Booker and Orange awards, called on the BBC to \"reconsider this barmy proposition\". \"At a time when arts funding generally is at risk, and when reading in particular is under attack by the proposed closure of local libraries, we need to do all we can to preserve and to celebrate our nation's literary culture. The popularity of the regular short story slot on Radio 4 is demonstrated by the eloquence and passion of the voices being raised to save it,\" said the author. \"Listeners seem to understand what BBC controllers do not: that the marriage of radio and fiction is a match made in heaven. Radio 4 has a wonderful tradition of championing the short story, entertaining and informing its audience with new and classic writing, nurturing our vital powers of imagination, creativity and empathy. It's a huge shame that the BBC's own imagination seems to be failing it now.\" This article was amended on 15 September 2011. The original said \"a significant reduction from 2009, when six short stories were broadcast weekly\". This has been corrected.",
  "title": "Authors join 'tweetathon' in support of short stories",
  "lead": "Writers join Twitter users to produce collaborative tales, in protest at cuts to Radio 4 short story broadcasts",
  "tags": [
    "books/short-stories",
    "books/fiction",
    "books/books",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/radio4",
    "media/bbc",
    "culture/culture",
    "books/joanne-harris"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "books/2011/sep/14/authors-tweetathon-short-stories",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}