{
  "content": "Aim \"To give further effect to rights and freedoms guaranteed under the European convention on human rights; to make provision with respect to holders of certain judicial offices who become judges of the European court of human rights.\" Main provisions \u2022 Incorporates into British law key elements of the European convention on human rights including: - Article 2: Right to life - Article 3: Prohibition of torture - Article 4: Prohibition of slavery and forced labour - Article 5: Right to liberty and security - Article 6: Right to a fair trial - Article 7: No punishment without law - Article 8: Right to respect for private and family life - Article 9: Freedom of thought, conscience and religion - Article 10: Freedom of expression - Article 11: Freedom of assembly and association - Article 12: Right to marry - Article 14: Prohibition of discrimination - Protocol No. 1 - Article 1 : Protection of property - Article 2 : Right to education - Article 3 : Right to free elections - Protocol No. 6 - Article 1 : Abolition of the death penalty - Article 2 : Death penalty in time of war \u2022 Creates an obligation on British courts to take case law from the European court of human rights into account and to interpret legislation in a way that is compatible with the convention on human rights. \u2022 Places an obligation on public authorities, including courts and tribunals and some private organisations exercising public functions, to act in a way compatible with human rights. \u2022 Requires the courts to pay particular regard to the importance of the right to freedom of expression in order to protect press freedom. \u2022 Requires the courts to recognise the importance of \"freedom of thought, conscience and religion\" when a case involves a religious organisation. Background The aftermath of the second world war brought demands for an international forum to safeguard basic human rights. Influenced by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1948, Council of Europe states created their own Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in 1950 (the European convention on human rights). The UK was active in ratifying the treaty in 1950. Cases were to be presided over by the European court of human rights in Strasbourg. Domestic courts in the UK could not hear cases because, under the UK's dualist system of law, the convention remained an international treaty with no domestic effect. In 1997 the Labour government, honouring a manifesto pledge announced their intention to incorporate the convention into domestic law. It published a white paper, Rights Brought Home: The Human Rights Bill, which would: \"mean that the British people will be able to argue for their rights in the British courts \u2013 without \u2026 inordinate delay and cost. It will also mean that the rights will be brought much more fully into the jurisprudence of the courts throughout the United Kingdom and will thus be far more subtly suited and powerfully woven into our law.\" Opponents expressed fears that the bill would shift authority from parliament to the judiciary. William Hague, leader of the Conservatives, stated that it would replace \"the rule of law with the rule of lawyers\". The bill sought to preserve parliamentary sovereignty by allowing the courts to interpret laws in a manner compatible with the convention \"so far as it is possible to do so\" but ultimately requiring the courts to make a \"declaration of incompatibility\" if such an interpretation is not possible. This mechanism then gives parliament the opportunity to amend any incompatible law. The press argued that the right to a private and family life would become a \"back door\" for a privacy law that could be used to curtail press freedom. The government responded by announcing an amendment designed to reassure critics. The government also tabled amendments to allay church leaders' fears that the bill could be used to change church policies on homosexuality, education and the ordination of woman priests. Section 13 affords \"particular regard\" to the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. Criticism Ten years on, there remain contrasting views as to the effectiveness and constitutionality of the Human Rights Act. The allocation of power between the judiciary and the government remains a controversial issue. In 2007 a parliamentary select committee said that the act had materially contributed to recent tensions between the executive and the judiciary: \"Senior judges are now required to police constitutional boundaries and determine sensitive human rights issues in a way which would have been unthinkable 40 years ago.\" In cases where law has clearly been found to violate convention rights, the House of Lords has issued declarations of incompatibility. The most controversial of these judgements was a 2001 case where the House of Lords found that the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 was incompatible with human rights by providing for the indefinite detention of terrorist suspects and discriminating against them on the ground of nationality or immigration status. Other areas that remain subject to controversy are the meaning of \"public authority\" \u2013 significant because only public authorities are obliged to act in accordance with convention rights under the act. Although the act only covers public bodies, the courts have also applied it to private law actions between individuals or private companies. Although a violation of rights in private law does not create a cause of action, if there is a pre-existing cause of action in UK law then the court as a public authority must interpret it in line with the act. One of the most significant areas in which this has been used is the protection of celebrities from alleged invasions of privacy by the media. In July 2008, Formula One boss Max Mosley won a privacy action against the News of the World. High Court judge Mr Justice Eady decided that the newspaper had violated Max Mosley's right to a private and family life by publishing footage of his sex session with prostitutes. Following the case Daily Mail editor-in-chief Paul Dacre attacked the act, criticising it for allowing a judge to introduce a law on privacy \"with a stroke of his pen\". The government believes this feeling is widespread and hopes to appease it by introducing a \"bill of rights and responsibilities\" \u2013 though strong opposition from the cabinet in November 2008 underlined the unpopularity of the proposal.",
  "title": "A-Z of legislation: Human Rights Act 1998",
  "lead": "An act giving effect to rights and freedoms guaranteed under the European convention on human rights",
  "tags": [
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "law/human-rights",
    "law/law",
    "world/eu",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/immigration",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2009/jan/14/human-rights-act",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}