{
  "content": "Two scam warnings emerged this week: one aimed at social networkers, and another at would-be investors. Twitter users were warned to look out for a phishing scam which sends tweeters a message saying \"This you????\" followed by a link. Curious recipients who click on the link are taken to a fake Twitter login page, where scammers are waiting to get their details. On the plus side, this allays any fears that you have been caught on camera doing something embarrassing, but at the expense of giving away your password and email address \u2013 which could well be details you use to access accounts elsewhere. Your account can also be hacked into and used to send phishing messages to your contacts. Security expert Graham Cluley has a video on his blog warning about the attack. It's not the first scam attempted on Twitter users and is unlikely to be the last. So how can you avoid falling victim? \u2022 If you get a message that seems this impersonal then don't click on the link. \u2022 If you want to log in to your account, go straight to Twitter.com, don't use a login page from a link. \u2022 Make sure you use a different password for Twitter than for other sites (particularly those where you make financial transactions). Separately, the Financial Services Authority has warned about a new investments scam where overseas fraudsters use the names, registration numbers and addresses of FSA-authorised firms and individuals to sell shares \u2013 in one case a company's website was cloned and a false email address and phone number added. Hand over your cash and in return you will get shares that are non-tradable, overpriced or even non-existent. And if the firm goes bust or disappears you will not be covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. The FSA says would-be share buyers should be wary of any unsolicited call or email from a firm of which they are not a customer. It recommends the following steps: \u2022 Ask for the contact details of the person calling you; \u2022 Check the firm or individual's status on the FSA register; and \u2022 Call the firm back on the switchboard number provided on the FSA register to make sure that the call came from the legitimate authorised firm. Anybody who has been contacted by a suspicious firm or has any doubts should report the encounter as soon as possible by calling the FSA on 0300 500 5000 or reporting it online. \u2022If you spot something you think might be a scam, please let us know and we'll look into it. Email money.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk",
  "title": "Scam watch: Twitter phishing and the false selling of shares",
  "lead": "Beware of a false Twitter login page and an investments scam using the details of authorised firms to sell shares",
  "tags": [
    "money/scamsandfraud",
    "technology/twitter",
    "money/moneyinvestments",
    "business/investing",
    "business/financial-services-authority-fsa",
    "money/money",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "money/blog/2010/feb/25/scam-watch-twitter-phishing-selling-shares",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}