{
  "content": "Elisabeth Murdoch, the chairman and chief executive of independent TV producer Shine Group, is teaming up with former Bebo chief executive Joanna Shields to form a new digital media content venture. The as yet un-named digital production company will aim to combine the \"traditional genre of television production with the reach, power and engagement of social media\". Shields, who blazed a trail in online drama with Bebo's ground-breaking KateModern, will be chief executive of the new company and will take a seat on the Shine Group advisory board. The new venture will seek to \"pioneer new methods and formats for storytelling, viewer engagement and the monetising of original content\" and aim to drive the online exploitation of Shine Group content. \"We are entering an exciting new era where community, content and communications are coming together to transcend existing media formats,\" said Shields. \"From real-time conversations to location-aware devices and community-powered media we are already seeing a glimpse of future things to come. Liz and Shine Group are the ideal partners to work with to translate these 'glimpses' into meaningful opportunities.\" The Shine Group has expanded rapidly over the past couple of years, with a string of overseas purchases including US Ugly Betty producer Reveille, and has launched or bought programme-making operations in Australia, Germany and Scandanavia. Murdoch's company, founded in 2001, produces Merlin and Masterchef and owns Ashes to Ashes producer Kudos and Princess Productions. \"To grow a content company it is vital to venture beyond the traditional approaches to television and online media that so quickly date, and there is nobody better placed to explore this with than Joanna,\" said Murdoch. \"Her ability to read trends and identify opportunities they present make her a natural and proven entrepreneur and peerless within digital media. I am thrilled to partner with her to build something creative and meaningful.\" Shields was chief executive of Bebo when it was bought by AOL for $850m in 2008. She became president of AOL's Peoples Networks and stepped down from the role after 14 months earlier this year. She will take up her new role on 1 October. Her innovations at social networking website Bebo included KateModern, a drama starring Ralf Little that played out in real time and allowed viewers to talk about the show and influence future plots. KateModern eventually amassed more than 67 million viewings. Shields was previously managing director of strategic partnerships at Google. \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. \u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Elisabeth Murdoch joins ex-Bebo chief exec Joanna Shields in online venture",
  "lead": "Chairman and chief executive of independent TV producer Shine to form social media/TV crossover with Shields. By John Plunkett",
  "tags": [
    "media/joannashields",
    "media/elisabeth-murdoch",
    "media/independent-production-companies",
    "technology/bebo",
    "media/television",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2009/sep/17/elisabeth-murdoch-joins-ex-bebo",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}