{
  "content": "What's happened to the way we talk about freedom of expression? Today, free expression is viewed as if it automatically requires to be weighed against privacy. Under the new Human Rights Act, judges are already deciding how a right to privacy (article 8) will impact on the right to freedom of expression (article 10). Appeal court judges in the case of Michael Douglas, Catherine Zeta-Jones and OK! magazine against Hello!'s publication of unofficial photographs of the couple's wedding say they have \"a powerful case\" for a right to privacy. The danger is that privacy regulation will create a new chilling effect on what we discuss in the future. Privacy protection is talked about as if there is a consensus on what \"privacy\" means. Celebrities argue they have a right of privacy to stop other people taking photos of them. The royal family argues that Prince William needs protecting from newspapers publishing details of his private life. Claiming \"privacy intrusion\" is the latest way to control unwanted publicity and stop the investigation of your life. Yet in 1972, when the Younger Committee on Privacy was set up to look at the press, it concluded that privacy was too fluid a concept to define. An individual's private life can be of no public interest in one situation and of immense public interest in another. Should privacy mean that a public figure's life is only discussed between the hours of 9am-5pm? Is it right that professional photographers and camera crews require a Greater London Authority permit to take photos in a public place such as Trafalgar Square? If Guardian journalists had accepted that Jonathan Aitken was on a private holiday in France, for example, would they ever have discovered that he had lied about who paid for a hotel bill? To resolve such dilemmas, the Human Rights Act offers a new framework: what are presented as competing rights on privacy and free expression can be \"balanced\", depending on the specifics of a case. But should free expression be treated on a par with privacy in the first place? After all, nobody is arguing for the right of journalists to physically enter people's bedrooms, but simply the right to use words and images. These days, however, the meaning of \"privacy\" has changed. It used to be about protecting data from intrusion by the state. Now it means protecting individuals from intrusion by anyone. \"Privacy\" has become such a subjective concept that it can be applied whenever anybody feels they don't like what is said about them. Above all, free expression is argued to cause emotional harm. For instance, Naomi Campbell's case against the Mirror - following its publication of a photo of the supermodel emerging from a Narcotics Anonymous clinic a few months ago - is not that no details should be published about her private life. Instead, she says the revelation of details should be under celebrities' control during sensitive times in their lives. It's not only celebrities who say they don't like comment on their private lives on certain occasions. Some people who are not normally in the public eye have complained about the effects of intrusion by a \"media scrum\" in the aftermath of tragedies. Last year, Tony Blair warned British photographers not to take photographs of his new-born son Leo. Several years ago, newspaper executives complained when reporters from ITV's The Big Story series erected a 60-foot crane to film on the public pavements outside their houses following the Mirror Group's publication of photographs of Princess Diana inside her gym. The fact that different types of people want privacy from public scrutiny is used to argue that privacy is an essential need for all human beings. Yet why should what is freely expressed be decided according to what the object of expression feels is bad for him or her? If society is becoming more sensitive to words and images, shouldn't we debate why this is, rather than automatically draw up more regulations? Not everyone is more sensitive to words and images; plenty of people invite the media to invade their privacy. Celebrities confess their drink binges (Caroline Aherne), drug habits (Robbie Williams) or relationship problems (Denise Van Outen) quite happily in interviews. Thousands have sent showreels to Channel 4's 2001 Big Brother series, content that their intimate moments could be under 24-hour surveillance. One could argue that in this confessional age, people's feelings about public scrutiny are becoming more robust. It depends on who is doing the privacy-invading, of course. We may feel content to tell all when it suits us, and aggrieved when somebody else reveals details. But can free expression ever be stopped? For all the laws that attempt to restrict the media, there is always someone else who may gossip or write an email about you if a story is worth talking about. Journalists who argue in favour of free expression and invade people's privacy are told - often by other journalists - \"Well, you would say that, wouldn't you?\" Whether it's an investigative journalist arguing about the need to expose the corrupt and the cruel or a tabloid editor wanting to publish photos of semi-naked celebrities, they are dismissed as merely wanting a licence to make money from snooping, prying and other people's misery. There is more at stake in defending free expression, however, than the ability of journalists to make a living. The right to freedom of expression means that everyone can have their say and judge what others say. It's not a privilege reserved for billionaire media moguls. But it's not surprising that some journalists no longer support a right to expression free from the constraints of privacy safeguards. Not everyone wishes to be associated with the expression of trivia or unpalatable material. Acceptable free expression is said to be by responsible journalists on matters in the public interest; indefensible expression involves salacious stories that lower the standards of journalism. Yet this begs a question about freedom itself: should judges, laws, self-regulatory codes or anyone else decide what counts as free expression, or the individual who is speaking, writing, or publicising an image in the first place? Freedom of expression may be discussed far more, especially by those in positions to decide what everyone else can say. But if our idea of free expression is constantly bound up with a notion of privacy, we're not hearing the full debate. \u0095 Tessa Mayes is a journalist and director of the LIRE media group. Her interactive report, Restraint or Revelation? Free Speech and Privacy in a Confessional Age, will be published by spiked, the new online magazine",
  "title": "Private lives?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "How can you reconcile each individual's right to privacy with the media's right to publicise the truth?  Tessa Mayes  argues that the meaning of freedom of expression is changing in the modern world",
  "id": "media/2001/apr/02/mondaymediasection.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}