{
  "content": "What's your favourite piece of technology and how has it improved your life? I'm going to have to say iChat, so that when I'm in one part of the world and my fiance is in another we can communicate while seeing each other. It's really improved my life. When was the last time you used it, and what for? A few hours ago, for chatting with my fiance, Tommy Haas. What additional features would you add if you could? I'm waiting to be able to do this on my BlackBerry, at all times. Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time? No, I don't. I just think it will be improved. My wish will come true and we'll be able to access it in different formats. What always frustrates you about technology in general? I'm a firm believer that newer isn't always better. I'm not the most savvy when it comes to tech \u2013 I get confused easily and am not comfortable with too many options. Sometimes less is more. Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated? You know what I really hated? Remember those days when people had pagers? I hated those things. If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be? I think less is more. For me, I have my phone, my computer and my iPod, and I think those are the three things I cannot live without. You've gotta keep it kind of simple. Just because new things are coming out every day doesn't mean you always have to jump on the bandwagon. People get too caught up in having the latest gadgets. Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd? I'm a bit of a nerd but it depends on what your definition of a nerd is. I know about as much as I need to get by but I have yet to participate in Twitter and Facebook. I'm a little behind the times, I suppose. I still like to hold a newspaper and I don't like to read papers and books on new technology, like the Kindle. I don't want to read a book on the computer, I love to hold it when I read it, and I love the smell of them. What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned? I would definitely say my laptop. I can't believe how much I spent on that thing considering all I use it for is to send email and surf the internet. Mac or PC, and why? I'm a Mac. One feature I really like is iPhoto. I'm big on taking photos and making scrapbooks and it's geared to people like me who aren't that savvy. Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase? I haven't bought CD in a long time. I do download my music and I do pay for it \u2013 I buy it on iTunes. And I buy DVDs, too. I pride myself on my DVD collection. The last film I bought was Inglourious Basterds. Robot butlers \u2013 a good idea or not? Oh my gosh, is that something they're inventing? I definitely like the idea of being in bed and getting a robot butler to fetch a glass of water for me. But I'd also be scared the thing would malfunction and attack me \u2013 that would be scary. What piece of technology would you most like to own? Maybe one of those computerised cars \u2026 is a hybrid car considered technology? I'll take a hybrid Ferrari but I would like to not have to pay for it.",
  "title": "Sara Foster: 'I'm a firm believer that newer isn't always better'",
  "lead": "Celebrity squares: Actor Sara Foster's tech life has been improved by iChat and iPhoto just don't mention pagers \u2013 she hates them",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/blackberry",
    "technology/kindle",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2010/oct/08/sara-foster-celebrity-squares",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}