{
  "content": "Everyone loves babies \u2013 especially their parents. So it makes sense to want to create a better world for them. Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, pediatrician Dr Priscilla Chan, just announced the birth of a healthy baby girl named Max with a healthy financial legacy: in an open letter to Max that was shared on her father's Facebook page, Zuckerberg and Chan have pledged to allocate 99% of their Facebook shares \u2013 currently worth about $45bn \u2013 to their social good organization, the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative. I think I understand why they did that. As a new parent of a wonderful baby girl (now eight months old), I immediately saw the world differently \u2013 that is to say, as a terrifying hellscape of dangers lurking in wait for my tiny, vulnerable child. I remember weeping as we left the hospital, my tiny baby buckled safely into her new carseat, oblivious as we pulled out into the New York City traffic, suddenly filled with hazards literally at every turn. I body-blocked as much as I could on that ride home, draped over her as she snoozed calmly, looking out the windows at the cars and trucks and buses and pedestrians and bikes and seeing them with new menace. Yes, part of that was new-mom hormones, of which there were many. But most of it was simple appreciation of reality: our world is filled with hazards, most of them beyond our control. And eight months later, I can say that I still live in abject fear of the world around us. When terrible things happen in the world, you take it personally. You want to change things. Every parent can work to change the world \u2013 and should \u2013 but Zuckerberg and Chan are in an especially advantageous position to do so. The little website that was created out of Max's daddy's college dorm room is now one of the most ubiquitous and influential companies in the world, and it is admirable that he has made a point of showing leadership about how a mega-wealthy CEO can approach parenthood. But such an enormous philanthropic bequest reaches a whole other level of leadership \u2013 and influence. The Chan Zuckerberg Initiative is not a nonprofit, however, but rather a social good initiative with a stated mission to \"advance human potential and promote equality\" Part of its mission will surely be to support charitable causes \u2013 probably including The Primary School, a nonprofit educational initiative launched by Chan. According to the open letter to Max, the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative is meant to \"join people across the world to advance human potential and promote equality for all children in the next generation\" with an initial focus on \"personalized learning, curing disease, connecting people and building strong communities\". The letter is something of a manifesto about technological connectedness, childhood health and political engagement and is ambitious in its scope without being too specific. No doubt there will be debate in the coming years as to how the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative uses its resources and influence \u2013 as Max's parents predicted in their letter, writing that \"Good people will have different views on the best path forward.\" For now, I'm just going to assume that this bequest is a wonderful and positive gift to the world \u2013 and a good reason that people should spend time with adorable babies before making big decisions. The newest member of the tech community gives me hope for other reasons. The short description of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative states that its goal \"to promote equality\", and Zuckerberg and Chan note in their open letter that \"advancing human potential and promoting equality are tightly linked\". It's no secret that the tech industry is weighted wildly toward the white, male, straight, cisgender and privileged, and Zuckerberg in particular is aware of the urgent drumbeats in tech and business around improving diversity and changing the ratio (see Facebook's 2015 diversity stats). Zuckerberg's COO Sheryl Sandberg's Lean In has been a major driver of this discussion, particularly with respect to gender equality. Chan and her husband will now both be in an amazing position to show leadership on making gender equality a reality in the tech sector and beyond. That is part of changing the world for your child as well. Meanwhile, Baby Max is impervious to the avalanche of think pieces her birth announcement has triggered. As I recall from my own daughter's birth eight months ago, her biggest concern is eating, sleeping and occasioning the need for a fresh diaper. If they are anything like I was, I suspect that Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan are spending a lot of time just gazing at their new baby girl, in awe that she exists and filled with the fierce drive to love and protect her, and to make her world a better place. Lucky for us it's our world too.",
  "title": "Babies make you want to change the world. Maybe Mark Zuckerberg can | Rachel Sklar",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/mark-zuckerberg",
    "technology/facebook",
    "society/philanthropy",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "The Chan Zuckerberg Initiative is out to 'advance human potential and promote equality'. That seems like a positive reaction to having a new daughter",
  "id": "commentisfree/2015/dec/02/chan-zuckerberg-initiative-philanthropy-change-the-world",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}