{
  "content": "Article 19, the human rights organisation dedicated to promoting freedom of expression, has entered the debate over the European court of justice's so-called \"right to be forgotten\" ruling by calling on Google and data protection watchdogs to protect free speech The organisation was giving evidence before Google's advisory council on the ruling by the European Union's highest court, which decided that individuals had the right to request that Google and other search engines operating in the EU remove links to results generated by a search for their name, making it difficult for third parties to find them. Gabrielle Guillemin, Article 19's senior legal officer, said: \"In the debate over the right to be forgotten, we must not forget freedom of expression. Data protection must never be used as a trump card simply in order to protect individuals from embarrassing information that was already lawfully in the public domain. \"We believe personal data contained in historical records should remain in the public domain unless the data subject can establish substantial harm by it being public. \"Search engines are not, nor should they be, the censors of the internet, and should not be put in the position of deciding what information is 'adequate, relevant or no longer relevant' based solely on individual complaints. \"We are concerned this could lead to vast swathes of information which the public has a right to know about, simply disappearing from the internet because someone finds it embarrassing or inconvenient. \"Balancing the rights to freedom of expression and privacy is never easy, especially online, but this 'right to be forgotten' shouldn't become some sort of 'super right' trumping the others. \"As a bare minimum, Article 19 is calling for a right of notification to content providers, so they at least have the right to challenge unfair removals. We are also calling for data protection authorities to develop a code of practice following an open and inclusive consultative process. \"But ultimately we believe that if individuals want links about them to be removed, they should go to court or independent adjudicatory bodies and those institutions should apply the well-established balancing exercise between privacy and freedom of expression that courts do best.\" Article 19 is an independent London-based human rights organisation with a specific focus on the defence and promotion of freedom of expression and freedom of information. Source: Article 19",
  "title": "Article 19's call to Google over 'right to be forgotten' ruling",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "world/freedom-of-speech",
    "technology/google",
    "law/human-rights",
    "world/eu",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "media/press-freedom",
    "politics/freedomofinformation",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/privacy",
    "law/european-court-of-justice"
  ],
  "lead": "Human rights group says data should remain in public domain",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2014/oct/16/freedom-of-speech-google",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}