{
  "content": "This week, I'm on a cruise with the Nation magazine, as a guest of their feminist columnist Jessica Valenti. It's a weeklong lefty political event, and it's a cruise, so the attendees are who you'd expect: retired liberals. At nightly dinners, we chat about the shutdown, war and activism \u2013 and every evening, the older folks on the cruise lament the lack of politically active young people. Jessica and I are both feminists in our 30s who started feminist blogs a decade ago, and whose work brings us in contact with extraordinary numbers of young people active politics and feminism. But all that activism seems invisible to the retirees we're meeting. And the volunteerism done by older folks in the service of liberal causes? We don't see that in our day-to-day, either. Generational gaps in politics and activism are nothing new. But the increasing use of technology in activism seems to have exacerbated the age divide. The people I've been talking to, who are largely in their 60s, 70s and 80s, ask why we're not out on the streets marching against Syria intervention, or student loans, or encroachments on abortion rights. They ask why more young people aren't on the Nation cruise. We explain that while lots of younger activists do protest in the streets \u2013 just look at Occupy Wall Street \u2013 many of us focus our activism and political engagement online. And in a nation where much of our personal communication and professional work happens over the internet, cyberspace is no longer separable from \"real life\". Twitter campaigns and online petitions, when done well, can be as politically effective as large-scale marches. The feminist blogosphere, where Jessica and I both got our start writing, is teeming with bright young activists who vote, volunteer for Planned Parenthood, work for progressive politicians and staff liberal organizations. The success of feminism on the internet is evident in looking at any online political publication; there isn't a single reputable liberal one that doesn't regularly feature feminist content and staff feminist-minded writers. Feminist blogs are some of the most highly-trafficked on the political internet. But by doing so much work online, are we missing out on something? Online work is important and effective, and I don't plan on taking myself offline anytime soon. But in chatting with the older folks on this cruise, I'm realizing how much hard-earned knowledge and experience we lose when we don't talk to each other. Polling shows that older people in the United States tend to be more conservative, particularly on social issues \u2013 regressive on gender equality, against same-sex marriage, racially prejudiced. They tend to vote Republican, and largely supported Mitt Romney in the last presidential election. It's easy for liberals to write them off as rightwing curmudgeons, especially when our political interactions with older people too often amount to them wagging their fingers at us for not doing enough. The stereotype of the Romney-voting racist grandpa is hardly reflective of reality. It may not be the job of young people to reach out to older folks in order to prove our dedication to our causes. But it wouldn't be a bad idea to make small inroads by showing up at events like town hall meetings or political readings. It would be great if progressive tech groups could create more partnerships with organizations like the AARP, so that retirees could learn not just how to get online to keep up with the grandkids, but could see where progressive action is happening on the internet and participate more fully in today's lefty communities. Progressive movements tend to appeal more to the young, since they challenge entrenched assumptions about gender, race, sexual orientation and social mores. Republicans have honed the strategy of appealing to a fear of change: it's easier to exploit that fear in people who have been around for a long time and understand the world according to long-held views. It is, of course, a losing strategy \u2013 the world does change, and the people whose views are the most traditional die off. Absent totalitarian governments brutally enforcing traditionalism, societies evolve and progress. But old people aren't immovable. They aren't all holding conservative beliefs, either. The women now in their 60s and 70s were the leaders on the second-wave feminist and civil rights movements when they were in their 20s and 30s. Some are certainly living in the past: convinced that today's women don't care about feminism, aren't doing activism the right way, or should sit back and learn before we speak. But many others are thrilled to see their banner carried on, and are supportive of the younger activists who are setting our own priorities and agendas. And as the baby-boomers age during a time where people are living longer than ever, certain issues will undoubtedly come to the political forefront, hopefully with more liberal results: healthcare, end-of-life options (including the right to die), and medical marijuana access. Young people are politically active, engaged and passionate about social justice \u2013 I see that in my work every day. And there are, of course, many older folks who are just as adept at online activism as people in their 20s. But the political internet skews young, and we aren't connecting with our elders as well as we could. In part, that's out of frustration with the dismissiveness with which we're often treated by older folks who believe only they have earned the right to be in charge. But it's also a reflection of the different spheres in which liberal activism is happening. The older people I've met this week are health clinic volunteers, feminist authors, state legislators and other activists \u2013 with a wealth of wisdom to share and little interest in condescending lectures. They're people who care enough about liberal causes to want to come on a week-long cruise to support one of the country's oldest liberal publications. They want to be more active online to see what the kids are doing. We should embrace that urge, and work on translating digital activism for people whose long activist histories are offline. It is progressives, after all, who are working to build a society that supports the ageing. And online spaces offer incredible platforms for connection across previously insurmountable boundaries and the sharing of information across cultures, locations and experiences. A bit more of a connection across generation gaps would broaden that universe even further. The outcome, I suspect, wouldn't be hoary, outdated activism; it would be a wiser and more holistic progressive political base.",
  "title": "Know what would be really progressive? Get over this generation gap | Jill Filipovic",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "us-news/us-politics",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world",
    "society/society",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "world/protest",
    "world/occupy",
    "world/feminism",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "Jill Filipovic: Millennials moan about their digitally challenged elders. Liberal seniors complain how apathetic the young are. We can all learn",
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/oct/10/progressives-get-over-generation-gap",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}