{
  "content": "Companies spend billions building profiles of us as consumers and billions more trying to persuade us to buy their goods. Is there another way? Alex Willcock, a 43-year-old ex-Conran executive, thinks most of this is wasted money. He has started a web site, imagini.net, using photographs to assess what he calls our \"Visual DNA\". He says that more than 4 million people have already built their profiles having heard of it by word of mouth. He claims to be \"turning Google's approach on its head\" by letting users control their own digital identities. It works like this. When you log on to the site you are presented with the words \"Art is ...\" and invited to click on one of 15 images - from the Mona Lisa to a tattoo - that most closely reflects your taste in art. This is repeated a number of times with different sets of images and questions. By the end the site has your so-called visual DNA which is automatically compared with millions of others in the database - so you can immediately see who else in the world approximates to your profile (from zero to 100%). You can contact them based on their age, sex or location. Soon you will be able to use Google Earth to home in on, say, your holiday destination to see how many people there share your visual DNA. The site has a \"wall\" with lots of small photos of participants which you can click on to get more details or to contact them. You can see the attraction for marketers because images transcend language barriers and people can be matched to products they like. Within six weeks of starting the site had at least five people from every country in the world. Willcock says: \"I wanted to turn the art of intuition into a science,\" an approach recently made fashionable by the best-selling book Blink, which claims first impressions are better than detailed analysis. The test is whether Imagini's visual profiles reveal things about ourselves that words can't reach. I found I could easily get a different personal profile by clicking on different pictures that were equally valid as a reflection of my tastes. This, apparently, doesn't matter as long as the answers are honest. I emailed five people coming closest my own visual DNA (though not age!) and those that answered were all intrigued by the site but hadn't yet started using it regularly - maybe because Imagini is still a work in progress and hasn't yet unveiled some strong features. I was shown some of the visual DNA of Guardian readers taken from a wider exercise Imagini had done. It was eerily familiar, reflecting this reader's taste in furniture, mobile phone operator, preferences (eg, being a cat rather than dog lover), preferring Amnesty International as a social brand, plus other traits that would be very useful for advertisers. But what chance does it have when social sites such as MySpace, Bebo and Facebook are sweeping all before them? Willcock says Imagini is not a creator of social networks but an enabler of them. To prove it, he gave me a sneak preview of an interesting application due soon for Facebook. It uses Imagini's visual images to enable Facebook users to learn more about each other's moods and interests and to cluster together in \"planets\" containing like-minded people who can share messages and photos and see how many of their existing Facebook friends are there. Imagini is also hooking up with MyDeco, the upcoming new venture from the founders of Lastminute.com that helps people decorate their homes. Imagini has some very high-octane financial backing and has been well received by some major companies. It is significant not just as another interesting UK startup but as an indication of the direction social websites are taking. Its backers hope it will make money if companies adopt it as an alternative to conventional marketing. Meanwhile, I'll have to discuss with my wife why our visual DNA correlation turned out to be 0%. vic.keegan@theguardian.com \u00b7 If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails to tech@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Victor Keegan: Looking at a new way to make friends",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "Victor Keegan: What chance does it have when social sites such as MySpace, Bebo and Facebook are sweeping all before them?",
  "id": "technology/2007/aug/09/guardianweeklytechnologysection.comment",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}