{
  "content": "Moshi Monsters maker Mind Candy is selling its social app PopJam to fellow children's entertainment firm SuperAwesome. The app launched in July 2014 as an Instagram-style photo-sharing app for children, and remains only available in the UK. Neither company is disclosing the acquisition price for the app. \"There is nothing like it in the kids space, and without any real marketing spend it has become extremely popular,\" said SuperAwesome's chief executive Dylan Collins. \"It has hundreds of thousands of monthly active users, and it has done multiple millions of downloads. If you were going to reinvent Nickelodeon for today's generation of kids, I think it would be PopJam.\" SuperAwesome, which runs a marketing platform covering children's websites, apps and online videos, plans to launch PopJam in North America and Australia, before expanding elsewhere in the world. Collins said that brands like Puffin Books, The Beano and Horrible Histories, as well as popular British YouTube stars Dan and Phil, see PopJam as a safe space to reach their younger fans. \"Many of those brands have got more followers on PopJam than they do on Twitter, for the very simple reason that kids aren't on Twitter in any meaningful sense,\" said Collins. He pointed to Puffin Books as an example, with the publisher having 30k followers on Twitter globally, but 73k on PopJam in the UK alone. The Beano has less than 4k followers on Twitter but 60.5k on PopJam. Mind Candy's chief executive, Michael Acton Smith, said that the sale comes at the right time for the app and for his company. \"We've reached the point with PopJam where we need to start generating revenue from it. We didn't think a subscription model would work so the most logical step was to fund it via advertising,\" he said. \"We have no expertise in this area and since Super Awesome are experts at it felt sense to have a conversation with them.\" Advertising to children within apps can be controversial, as Google's YouTube Kids has discovered. Collins said SuperAwesome will be ensuring that wherever it launches, PopJam will ensure that advertising does not flout local regulations on marketing to children. \"The debate is really about whether you want advertising to be done in a way that is targeting kids and surreptitiously collecting data on them, or whether you want it to be done by appropriate brands and using technology that ensures kids are not being targeted or tracked,\" said Collins. Mind Candy made its name with online world Moshi Monsters, although its popularity has fallen due to competition from tablet and smartphone games. Mind Candy's comeback plans have so far focused on its World of Warriors brand, with three mobile games, collectible cards, a magazine and now toys available. \"The game is doing okay but due to the super competitive nature of the mobile gaming space isn't a top grossing title,\" said Acton Smith. \"Warriors toys launch this week and we don't have early reads yet but we have strong distribution and great support from our licensing and retail partners so we're hopeful,\" he said. Mind Candy recently denied a report suggesting that the company was shutting down, but Acton Smith said the company is optimistic for a future focused on \"developing worlds, stories and characters\". \"I'm always optimistic. That said, it definitely hasn't been an easy couple of years as revenue from Moshi has fallen much faster than we predicated,\" he said. \"In the digital age it's extraordinary how fast hits can come and go. We've got a very creative team and are working on a number of new initiatives. These are challenging times but we're rolling up our sleeves and battling onwards.\"",
  "title": "Mind Candy sells its 'Instagram for kids' app PopJam to SuperAwesome",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/children-s-tech",
    "technology/apps",
    "technology/smartphones",
    "money/mobile-phones",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "society/children",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/advertising"
  ],
  "lead": "UK-only app from Moshi Monsters maker is used by 'hundreds of thousands' of children, and will now launch elsewhere in the world",
  "id": "technology/2015/sep/11/mind-candy-instagram-kids-popjam-superawesome",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}