{
  "content": "In the 00s, you couldn't move for novelty songs, from Bob The Builder's No 1 smash Can We Fix It? to the three (three!) full-length albums released by Crazy Frog \u2013 who, incidentally, qualifies as an early internet meme. This decade, on the other hand, has been relatively lax when it comes to pumping out neuron-destroying musical inanity. But, after a Harlem Shake-shaped false start, the age of novelty song 2.0 might be upon us \u2013 only this time the cheap, attention-grabbing trick lies not in the song itself, but in the meme it generates. This month, rap group Migos topped the US Billboard chart with Bad And Boujee, their trap collaboration with rapper Lil Uzi Vert. This was partially thanks to the publicity generated by an extremely hyperbolic endorsement by Donald Glover (he called them \"The Beatles of this generation\", which itself was a reference to an old meme that compared Migos to the Fab Four), but the fact the song had produced a popular meme seemed to have played a significant part, too. Like Rae Sremmurd \u2013 whose song Black Beatles topped the US charts for seven weeks thanks to the Mannequin Challenge, a video craze in which people stood stock still while the song played in the background \u2013 Migos didn't actually create the meme that propelled them to stardom. Instead, the song provided a jumping-off point for a Twitter poetry snowclone, which consisted of social media users adding a supplementary humorous line to the end of Bad And Boujee's \"raindrop, drop top\" couplet. Examples ranged from the Elaine Benes-referencing \"what about a muffin place that just sold the top\" (from @Seinfeld2000) to the banal juxtaposition of \"Iowa is home to the world's largest truck stop\" (by @hannahchin). That may not sound like 24-carat comedy gold but, as with most memes, this is humour realised via accumulation. Black Beatles and Bad And Boujee may be light on comic potential in and of themselves, but other more intrinsically funny songs are currently being mined for laughs in the world of memes. One such example is Smash Mouth's 1999 hit All Star. The track has been referenced a huge amount in the past few months on social media, whether through verse that apes the \"Hey now, you're an all star\" structure of the chorus or by remixing the track itself in ridiculous ways. One video by YouTube user James Nielssen has changed all the lyrics simply to its first word, \"somebody\", while SoundCloud user Vagidictoris has changed every note in the song to a C. The edits are stupid and sometimes nightmarish in themselves, while the obsessive fixation on something irrelevant is definitely part of the joke. Yet, there is no doubt that All Star has been targeted for its specific qualities \u2013 the main ones being its feelgood nostalgia value and a laughably exuberant pop-punk style that feels totally earnest. Joining Smash Mouth in inherent ridiculousness is The Young Pope. The Jude Law-starring does-what-it-says-on-the-tin series became a meme in the US before it even aired there; the mere idea of a young pope \u2013 and the matter-of-fact delivery of this information \u2013 providing a comic seam for social media users to mine. There were adapted song lyrics, including the obligatory All Star cross-reference (\"Hey now, you're a young pope/ not an old pope/ don't/ age\" quipped Twitter user @Lubchansky) as well as doctored Don Draper pitching sessions (\"The Pope \u2026 but he's young\" went @stodgeoff's version). Coincidentally, Barack Obama once met an extremely young pope \u2013 a toddler dressed in a pope costume, complete with popemobile, for Halloween. Photographs of the encounter allowed meme-makers to reference another Twitter trend: that of taking a picture of something and ostensibly captioning it seriously with a film or TV show title to which it bears a vague resemblance. The resulting absurdity provided the comedy \u2013 a joke that I first saw on the Twitter account @FiImMemes, which mainly uses stills from SpongeBob SquarePants. For instance, a picture of Taylor Swift on a private jet was captioned \"Snakes On A Plane (2006)\", while Theresa May dancing rather creepily was labelled as a scene from Pulp Fiction. It would probably be a bit of a stretch to connect this to post-truth politics and fake news, but this format is surely a joke about the misinformation and gaffs that proliferate on social media, an environment where all information is treated equally.",
  "title": "Is Migos' Bad And Boujee the new mannequin challenge?",
  "lead": "Rap memes are still taking over while Smash Mouth set the internet alight for the first time since, well, ever, and the Young Pope is a bit too young for some",
  "tags": [
    "culture/culture",
    "tv-and-radio/the-young-pope",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "culture/2017/feb/01/migos-bad-bougee-black-beatles-young-pope",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}