{
  "content": "Further to criticism about Google's privacy practices - first from European bods and then this weekend from Privacy International - the Silicon Valley GiantTM has responded by tweaking its policies. In March Goog announced that it would anonymise user logs after 18-24 months; today it cranked that down to a flat 18 months. Our own Graeme Wearden tells the story here: The policy shift was flagged up in a letter sent to the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party in Brussels on Sunday by Peter Fleischer, Google's global privacy counsel. \"We believe that we can still address our legitimate interests in security, innovation and anti-fraud efforts with this shorter period,\" he said. The letter was released by Google on Monday evening. Is this just a cosmetic change, or a serious statement of intent? Well, I'll be talking to Peter Fleischer later on... anything you'd like to ask him? UPDATE: Mr Fleischer (I'm being formal - he's a lawyer) said that it was important for Google to retain private data in order to analyse behaviours and isolate bad actors (not the Tori Spelling variety). \"These logs are useful in analysing patterns - Denial of Service attacks, for example, may happen quickly, but are often preceded by months of smaller attempts... that data is useful to investigators.\" Clearly there's huge commercial value to this information as well, but Google is - as yet - unwilling to divulge information on how data's shared between different areas of its services. He also said that Google was under a legal obligation to retain data for both law enforcement purposes and as business records, and questioned whether the mishmash of regulators involved truly understood the requirements (read more in the updated version of today's story. Fleischer did say they were thinking of shortening cookie lifespan (though we'd still be talking about years of cookie data). When I asked about the potential problems with DoubleClick - a notoriously cookie-happy company - he said that they were considering heavily promoting the company's \"opt out\" cookie, which few users are currently aware of, but that DoubleClick acquisition had no bearing on this move. And what about the possibility of anonymous searching, as suggested by commenter CommanderKeen? Well, no dice there either - though there was no feeling that it was innately opposed to the principle (despite previously stated legal obligations to retaining data). \"There are clearly third party solutions for anonymising software. We have very serious reasons for retaining information.\" His original post on the Google Blog is here.",
  "title": "UPDATED: Google's tiny step on privacy",
  "lead": "Google has tweaked its privacy policy - and here's your chance to ask why.",
  "tags": [
    "technology/google",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/blog/2007/jun/12/googlestinyst",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}