{
  "content": "Do I really need symbols and characters and upper- and lower-cases in all my passwords? Like, really-really? I appreciate that this is the kind of question you ask in the hope the answer will be \"no\" and the knowledge that, if it isn't, you won't do anything about it anyway. Allow me to at least attempt to convince you that changing all your passwords is not only necessary, but it is also not as much of an interminable drag as it definitely sounds. Until recently, I was just like you: using the same password for multiple sites and services, with no grammatical symbols and a combination of numbers that, would you believe, pertained to my birthdate. When a service demanded a combination of upper- and lower-case, I simply capped up the first letter. Do your best, Anonymous! My blithe assumption was that no balaclava'd hacker could ever be interested in my online grocery order history (\"500g beef stir fry strips, bought 11x times\"), so there was no need to secure it. Turns out they're more interested in the linked credit card. Duh. The case for strong passwords is obvious, but it seems I was far from alone in ignoring it. According to analysis of 10m passwords made public in data breaches in 2016, more than half were the same 25 passwords. The most used, accounting for nearly 17% \u2013 almost one in five \u2013 of results, was \"123456\". Rounding out the top five were \"123456789\", \"qwerty\", \"12345678\", and \"111111\". (Bemusingly, \"mynoob\" came in at 12.) To reiterate, these were passwords involved in data breaches. Not to victim-blame, but most crosswords pose more of a cryptic challenge \u2013 even if the hackers are doing the code-cracking themselves, which they're not. Instead they're using software and hardware to test large volumes of possible passwords in seconds. We humble idiot netizens, with our preference for tapping either the same button or ones that are next to each other, don't stand a chance. In a recent episode of the Reply All podcast, host Alex Goldman investigates Uber trips in Russia mysteriously being charged to his account. The results prove inconclusive in just about every way, beyond the fact that data breaches are far more common than you might think. Among the sites to be hacked last year were MySpace, LinkedIn, and the Russian social network VK.com, and the impact could have been felt far wider given the flow-on effect of \"credential stuffing\", where hacked username-password combinations are automatically tried out on other sites. They are even sold on the dark web. I was not aware that my data had been compromised until I checked HaveIBeenPwned.com, which searches breached sites for email addresses and usernames, and found I'd been \"pwned\" three times \u2013 not only in last year's LinkedIn hack, but also those of the music site Last.fm and Tumblr, in 2012 and 2013 respectively. To quote a tech journalist on Reply All: \"Password reuse is the main threat to ordinary users of the internet\". This may not be news to you. You may be continuing to reuse the same password regardless. Good online password management is sort of like giving the shower a quick clean every time you use it: sensible advice, saving of time and effort in the mid- to long-term, but still such a drag. Compared with changing my passwords for every site and online service, the possibility of having to cancel my bank cards and spend hours on hold with customer service still seemed like the lesser hassle. Now, or before 7 April, might be a good time to address that. A group calling itself the \"Turkish Crime Family\" claims to be holding 300m Apple iCloud accounts to ransom unless Apple pays $100,000 in iTunes credit. According to Apple, there have been no breaches \u2013 but hundreds of millions of phones will be wiped remotely if it's wrong. In the end, what got me to act was the possibility of having my online chat logs made public for all to see. I don't know if this would ever happen, but I found the thought very motivating. It was the final push I needed to set up a password manager: without a doubt, my most boring New Year resolution, but far less arduous than the half-marathon to achieve. A password manager generates and stores passwords you could never possibly be expected to know by heart; you just have to remember one reasonably complex one to \"unlock\" all the others. I use LastPass. It was a task I had been putting off for the best part of a decade; it took about 90 minutes. The most tedious part of the process \u2013 logging into all the sites I have accounts with and changing their passwords to the mixes of symbols and numbers and upper- and lower-cases generated by LastPass \u2013 is still continuing. But my most used sites, at least, are secure. (More on password managers here.) In fact, intoxicated by the thought of the impenetrable fortress I was building around my online activity, I went further and turned on two-step verification for my email, banking and Apple accounts (it's just been enabled for Instagram, too). I now have to type in a code texted to my phone to gain access, even after entering my gibberish passwords \u2013 as recommended by LastPass on Monday after a vulnerability was discovered in its browser extension. Truly, nothing online is safe. Surprisingly, this extra step makes me feel more smug than irritated; each prompt with a new six-figure code is a reminder of how grown-up and responsible I am \u2013 like how it felt as a teenager to unstack the dishwasher unasked. In more than 10 years of using the same six-character password, I knew secure password management was sensible. I just never knew it could be cool.",
  "title": "I can't be bothered remembering tricky passwords. Will I be hacked?",
  "lead": "If you, like many of us, ignore advice to use strong passwords, it's likely you've been hacked. The good news? It's easier to fix than you think",
  "tags": [
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "culture/2017/mar/31/i-cant-be-bothered-remembering-tricky-passwords-will-i-be-hacked",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}