{
  "content": "With funding for traditional continued professional development (CPD) events in short supply, social media is being used more and more to support informal, peer-to-peer learning among teachers. But it's not all plain sailing. Some professionals, such as our recent Secret Teacher, find social media overwhelming and unhelpful. We recently ran a live chat for teachers and heads to share ideas on how to get started with social media and how those online can make the most of it. Here's a roundup of their suggestions: Starting out I think social media is a bit like starting at a new workplace. I consider it to be an online workplace and therefore abide by the same rules in terms of what I say and how I interact with others. I started off as being an observer on Twitter. This helps you understand the scene and how people interact. Choose some teachers and education organisations that you know and follow their Twitter handles. Summer Turner, director of teaching and learning at the East London Science School. Share what happens in your classroom, office and school and open it up to comments, critique and further developments. Follow and build up a network with people that share your role and/or teach your subject. And then just get involved. Always question if your involvement and interactions improve what happens in your classroom. If your interactions make you reflect and trial new ideas then it is 100% worth it. Damian Benney is deputy headteacher at Penyrheol comprehensive school in Swansea. Find subject specific chat There is a surge in subject specific chats at the moment on Twitter. For example #engchat and #engchatUK are very popular for English teachers. I have a colleague (head of English) who is an avid participator sharing resources and debating current curriculum trends. Gary King is assistant headteacher at Tavistock college in Devon. The benefits One of the key aspects of online CPD is that it truly is continuous. Often face-to-face CPD, no matter how good, ends up being a one-off. CPD on social media allows for individual teachers to develop ideas and learn whenever they wish and for as long as they wish. Remember CPD (especially that online) occurs over time \u2013 don't expect it all to be perfect overnight. Turner. Private vs public profiles I keep my Twitter professional in that I don't mention my social life or use inappropriate language, as my pupils and parents follow me. However, I will tweet about political issues and ideas outside of education. Facebook, however, I keep completely private and social. Turner. Dealing with reluctant colleagues We are going to put class Twitter accounts together for the whole school during our next inset day. But we will begin by staff creating their own account to kickstart them getting used to it as a CPD opportunity. I sometimes find it difficult to \"sell\" Twitter and other social media forums to those who are adverse to it. Because I have been involved in them for so long, you can often take for granted how easy it is to share and receive quality info, resources and guidance. Rachel Orr is headteacher at Holy Trinity Rosehill VA CE primary school in Stockton. Dealing with conflict It can be heated at times (and be like a playground at other times) on social media. Always engage in a tweet conversation by making points that you would be happy to make to their faces. If the other person doesn't reciprocate then bow out of the conversation. Benney. Any online CPD carries the potential of hostile conversations, particularly because we are distant from the people we are communicating with. I think it's about modelling how you wish to be treated; if you maintain respect and politeness in your conversation and debate about ideas rather than people, then your experiences will be similar. Turner. Take it offline If you immerse yourself in Twitter, and be aware it is very addictive, the online experience can lead to real life connections. When looking to launch a more consistent approach to sharing learning intentions, I exchanged several emails and a few hours of phone calls with [a teacher] in Durham. This extra contact means that despite never actually having met him in the flesh, I consider him a colleague and a friend. Benney. I think [online communication] builds towards real human interaction. I've met more people in education as a result of online education communities and the initial discussions on social media make the interaction more meaningful once we meet in person. Turner. Follow us on Twitter via @GuardianTeach. Join the Guardian Teacher Network for lesson resources, comment and job opportunities, direct to your inbox.",
  "title": "Top tips for using social media to improve teaching and boost CPD",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "teacher-network/teacher-network",
    "teacher-network/professional-development",
    "education/teaching",
    "education/education",
    "education/schools",
    "education/primary-schools",
    "education/secondary-schools",
    "teacher-network/career-advice",
    "media/social-media",
    "teacher-network/teaching-tips"
  ],
  "lead": " Avoid conflict, share your ideas and take it offline sometimes \u2013 teachers and heads share their advice on using social media for professional development",
  "id": "teacher-network/2016/mar/09/top-tips-for-using-social-media-to-improve-teaching-and-boost-cpd",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}