{
  "content": "John Popham is a social media consultant who runs surgeries around the north of England. We need to overcome risk aversion: Staff in local government need to be trusted with social media in the same way they are trusted to use the telephone and talk face-to-face. How can we use social media platforms for different purposes? Facebook is generally for joining in the chats that residents are already having; Twitter is for promoting events, news and information and YouTube can be used to tell stories about your work and showcasing events. Glen Ocsko is community involvement and innovation manager at London borough of Sutton. Content is king: Start with the story that needs to be told and then use the different aspects of various platforms to tell it well. Internal communication can help: I'm a huge Yammer fan and I am doing all I can to help it grow internally. As well as having the obvious internal communication benefits it's also a safe place for staff to experiment with their \"professional social\" voice. If they make a mistake and share something on there which they shouldn't then the damage is somewhat limited. James Coltham is a web manager for the children and families department at the City of Edinburgh council. Successful case studies should be championed: They go a long way in helping to make the business cases back at base camp, dispelling myths and allaying fears. But perhaps most crucial is that all of this activity must be informed by the end user \u2013 we need to do these things with our citizens, not to them. Talk to your residents and find out what they want: Pendle council developed their social media strategy in consultation with its residents. And here in Edinburgh, we're currently running a survey to ask residents how they want us to use social media to better serve them. Jacob Leverett is from Surrey county council's shift team. There's no magic bullet, and no one team has the answer: Communications teams, customer services, councillors and the public need to work together to find ways to engage with each other. Ingrid Koehler speaks and writes on online engagement in public services Structures need to change: There are some great examples of councils using social media well and many more councils are using it, but there's still a timidity of approach. This is more to do with a reluctance to change. Too much of traditional engagement has been about handling the public rather than working with people. Helen Reynolds is digital social media manager at Monmouthshire county council. Innovation will only happen if the leadership supports it: Leaders understanding the importance of online is one thing, engaging in it and using the networks personally is an important step further that should be taken. How can we make sure we don't forget about people who aren't online? We need to communicate in other ways \u2013 meetings, good customer service, communications via newsletters, posters and other traditional channels to reach people. Alison Hernandez is a councillor at Torbay council Run social media surgeries to help your community get online: We have one brilliant enthusiast at Torbay council who gives her time for free to help local businesses, residents and active volunteers get online. Kate Denham is a senior manager in the BDO local government advisory team Local authorities should tap into trusted online communities: One of the key tenets of behaviour change shows that people's receptiveness to messages is hugely impacted by where it comes from so using highly subscribed and trusted forums to target a wider audiences is useful. Ben Matthews is head of communications at Futuregov Don't forget the importance of mobile: Many residents will mainly engage with councils through their smartphones. Whatever content you have , mobile optimisation should be a big consideration. Matthew Lund is senior policy and performance officer at Leeds city council It's really important to know the community audience well first: If you don't then work with partners that do as this will allow you to have the engagement that's needed. The questions to then consider are is it practical to hold dialogue on it? Is it easy to collate what's been said? \u2022 What do you think? Email sarah.marsh@guardian.co.uk if you want to contribute an article to this debate. Not already a member? Join us now for more comment, analysis and the latest job opportunities in local government.",
  "title": "Top tips: how to engage with residents online",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "public-leaders-network/local-government-careers",
    "society/localgovernment",
    "society/society",
    "media/social-media",
    "public-leaders-network/public-leaders-network",
    "public-leaders-network/local-government"
  ],
  "lead": "How can councils interact with residents through social media? Read the advice of our experts and share your own ideas",
  "id": "local-government-network/2013/jun/15/how-councils-engage-residents-online",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}