{
  "content": "James Forshaw, a British security researcher, was paid a $100,000 bounty by Microsoft for finding a major security flaw within Windows 8.1. The bounty for finding such a crucial flaw was $100,000, \"probably one of the biggest made available,\" explained Forshaw. Unfortunately he's barely going to get any of it. \"When it comes to the bounties given for finding security flaws like this, most of it goes to the company you work for, and even if it didn't, once the taxman has taken his cut it's certainly not a life changing monetary sum - we're not talking retirement money here,\" said Forshaw. Working for information security firm Context, Forshaw found a \"mitigation bypass\" within the Windows 8.1 security system. The bug is more than a simple vulnerability \u2013 it's an entire class of attack on the system. Essentially, a mitigation bypass circumvents the protection systems built into the operating system, and therefore potentially allows hackers widespread access. Many companies, including Google and Microsoft, offer bounty schemes for finding bugs in their software, outsourcing vulnerability discovery to specialist firms. While that may seem troubling that Microsoft or Google would trust the security of software millions of people use to outsiders, it's because of the scale of the task involved, according to Forshaw. A finite pool of bug-finding talent \"Microsoft and Google have fairly extensive security departments that are actively looking at finding software flaws in their own products and fixing them, making their products even more secure than what they already are,\" said Forshaw. \"However, sometimes it's a case of being too close to the product. When you've got access to the source code, the people that coded it, or maybe you were actually part of the team writing these products, you simply can't see the wood for the trees. \"You may look at very specific parts of your product for vulnerabilities, but actually you need to step back and look at the entire product and its interactions to find the higher-level vulnerabilities, like this mitigation bypass.\" It's also a case of cost versus reward for companies like Microsoft as the talent pool when you get to this top level of security research just isn't that big. \"You couldn't dedicate enough resources to find everything \u2013 it's cheaper to pay external researchers bounties over the level of security staff they'd need to cover every angle,\" he said. \"There's only a finite pool of talented people who can find vulnerabilities in these products and presumably they're not going to be concentrated in any one place.\" You can't write perfect code The process of farming out bug hunting isn't a random one from the perspective of Microsoft and other large companies, who reach out to the experts they know once their internal teams have had an initial attempt. \"Humans are fallible and you can't write perfect code. The people who are trying to find the bugs are also fallible, so they're not going to find all the bugs either, said Forshaw, who said Microsoft went directly to him for this problem.  \"I have a good relationship with the people at Microsoft, having submitted numerous bugs to them before. They specifically asked me and other researchers they knew to have a look at the task.  \"Sometimes internally we choose a product in which to look for vulnerabilities, and almost give it out to the general consultants within the company for a 'have a go' incentivised by a prize. The eureka moment happened at home Vulnerability research is not a way to get rich quick, and the work is intense. Forshaw ended up putting in much of the work in his own time. In fact, the nugget of thought that turned out to be the eureka moment originated from the peace and quiet of the home. \"I think I originally came up with the winning idea sitting at home, pondering what I could do. I came up with a few ideas, which ultimately didn't work out as viable techniques. \"But I thought, what if I took this one particular approach? At that point it was, \"OK, maybe that's something.\" I had a quick look at it, and it seemed like it had potential, so at that point I could proceed and test it. \"When it comes to vulnerability testing, though, the eureka moment is more about the final working proof of concept because there are so many stumbling blocks that can trip you up along the way. You just can't get too excited too quickly.\" \u2022 In August, a security flaw was found in Google's Chrome browser that offered unrestricted password access to hackers, including logon details for email, social networks and company systems.",
  "title": "Microsoft bug hunter won't see much of that $100,000 bounty",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/software",
    "technology/microsoft",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/windows",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "James Forshaw scooped a $100,000 reward from Microsoft - but his company and the taxman will get most of it. By Samuel Gibbs",
  "id": "technology/2013/oct/11/microsoft-bug-hunter-100000-bounty-james-forshaw",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}