{
  "content": "\"I feel myself ashamed and degraded at the brutal curiosity which took me to that brutal sight,\" wrote Thackeray after witnessing what must have been 1840's most literary hanging. The poet Richard Monckton Milnes also took his place in the thronging crowd, as did Dickens, who subsequently agitated for the abolition of public executions. What an irony that modern communications should have put primeval displays of bloodlust back in front of a mass audience which, in places like Britain, they haven't had in 150 years. This week it is the criminal, misogynist beheading of a woman in Mexico that was doing the rounds on Facebook, and provoking a disapproving prime ministerial intervention (or more precisely a prime ministerial tweet). But since the turn of the millennium, other similarly savage spectacles have been widely shared on the web. There was the videoed decapitation of British hostage Ken Bigley in Iraq, and a little later mobile phone footage of the judicial slaughter of Saddam Hussein. Libertarian voices were yesterday raised to say that \"if one wants to discuss brutality, one must be able to see it\". There is something in that, and the Guardian has sometimes featured grotesque images of grotesque acts \u2013 including the deaths of Saddam and, more recently, Colonel Gaddafi. But there is, perhaps, some distinction between restricting graphic images and censoring the free flow of facts and reportage. Eminent Victorians like Dickens who wished to take hangings away from public view were concerned about the \"odious levity\" with which a crowd would gawp at a man being put to death. They had concerns about the dignity of the deceased, and the brutalising effect on the sensibilities of the viewer. Both worries apply with the Mexican murder video. So, too, does the need to respect the dead woman's family, the danger of winning the killers the notoriety they crave, and the psychological scars of youngsters that parents cannot heal with the usual horror-film balm \u2013 \"it's only a movie\". An individual wishing to share such material \u2013 perhaps out of an urge to expose wicked misdeeds \u2013 ought to pause. If self-interrogation suggests that the real motivation is more an urge to share gory fascination than anything else, then to paste the offending link is to start slipping back into the mindset of public hangings. Faced with such footage, newspapers apply (or ought to apply) a \"public interest test\", another way of describing the process of weighing its offensiveness against any good that its release may do. From years of making such judgments, an editorial culture develops which would make mainstream news organisations deeply reluctant to play host to a beheading. Facebook, however, is another matter \u2013 for it is not a news organisation, but a company in the emerging field of communications engineering. It protests, with some justice, that it does not edit, but merely facilitates. The company regards its role as that of the pub landlord \u2013 to host the full range of human conversations, whether uplifting or ugly, booting out customers only where they are completely out of hand. They say there is not the capacity to edit the content of a billion users, and \u2013 even if there were \u2013 it would not be Facebook if this were done. Previous bans on bloody content were eased to allow witnesses to the Boston marathon bombing to share what they saw, and the consensus was that this worked to the good. The firm's difficulty, however, is that the site does have its strictures: it censors nudity vigorously. It cannot be right for it to maintain rules that regard nipples as more problematic viewing than real-life video nasties. The move to add a warning to the beheading footage may only redouble interest. Coming days after a dubious decision to enable child users' profiles to go on full public view, rather than being restricted to their social network, the intransigence over the Mexican footage smacks of a commercial desire not to lose out on customers inspired by \"brutal curiosity\".",
  "title": "Cruelty and the crowd: beheading videos on Facebook | Editorial",
  "lead": " What an irony that modern communications should have put primeval displays of bloodlust back in front of a mass audience",
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "politics/davidcameron",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/freedom-of-speech",
    "world/censorship",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/oct/22/beheading-videos-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}