{
  "content": "Scores of Britain's most dangerous sex offenders have slipped police surveillance and gone underground through fear of vigilante attacks following a newspaper campaign to 'out' paedophiles, The Observer can reveal. The Observer has obtained a dossier detailing evidence of the dramatic effect of the publication of the names and the photographs of dozens of sex offenders in last Sunday's News of the World. The dossier, compiled by the Association of Chief Officers of Probation over the past week, contains reports of attacks on convicted paedophiles as well as dozens of examples of people who have contacted their probation officers to say they have no choice but to move. Children's charities ChildLine and the NSPCC have joined probation officers in calling on the newspaper to stop its campaign immediately, in the interests of public safety. But executives at the newspaper said that it would name another 50 paedophiles in today's edition. Senior police officers are concerned that this American-style 'naming-and-shaming' tactic will add to the 500 paedophiles and rapists who live itinerant lifestyles to avoid signing the sex offenders' register. In one case reported to the probation service, the police smashed down the door of a paedophile under supervision in the south-east of England to find that he had absconded. A copy of the News of the World was on his kitchen table. Another man in London, convicted of a series of assaults on children, said if he was named he would attack journalists at the News of the World and then go underground. He is described by police as 'highly dangerous'. Gill Mackenzie, chair of the chief probation officers' association, said: 'The evidence within just a week is grave, but no one should be surprised. If probation monitoring and police surveillance are fractured, communities are at far greater risk.' Richard Garside, of the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders, said: 'This evidence shows what organisations like Nacro have been saying all along. This is bad for offenders, who are forced underground and off treatment programmes. But it is also bad for victims. Because, if offenders are more at risk of offending, you are simply creating more victims.' The dossier has been passed to News of the World editor Rebekah Wade, who has agreed to meet representatives of the probation service, children's charities and offenders' groups on Tuesday. Wade has said she is determined to press on with her campaign, despite condemnation from the police and government Ministers. The parents of murdered eight-year-old Sarah Payne, who back the News of the World campaign, yesterday signed a petition to change the law to allow convicted paedophiles to be publicly identified. This would be based on the so-called Megan's Law, introduced by President Clinton two years ago. It is named after Megan Kanka, who was murdered by a known paedophile in 1994. The issue had caused deep divisions within the Home Office, with Charles Clarke, who has responsibility for Criminal Justice described as 'incandescent with rage' about what the News of the World has done. But Home Secretary Jack Straw and Prisons and Probation Minister Paul Boateng have resisted pressure to issue a direct condemnation of the News of the World because they realise it has the support of large sections of the public. 'No one here believes that it was a good idea on the part of the News of the World,' said one Home Office source, 'but some Ministers have reacted more angrily than others.' News of the World managing editor Stuart Kuttner said he did not think his paper should feel defensive: 'We are galvanising public opinion and hoping to develop an important debate. 'The reaction from our readers indicates the enormous concern people have about their inability to know if there is a convicted child molester living within the community and the length of sentences for serious child sex offenders.'",
  "title": "Scores of paedophiles forced into hiding",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "society/childprotection",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/surveillance",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Scores of Britain's most dangerous sex offenders have slipped police surveillance and gone underground through fear of vigilante attacks following a newspaper campaign to 'out' paedophiles, The Observer can reveal.",
  "id": "media/2000/jul/30/privacy.childprotection",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}