{
  "content": "Dear Dr Mander I'm just an ordinary guy with a dream. Let me tell you about it. It's called the \"big society\". Now I know what you're thinking. You think my big society idea is really a fancy way to talk about a smaller state, some spin job to cover up for the fact that my government is about to butcher public services. Well, here's what I think. I think there are a few too many doubters, naysayers and cynics around who don't want to give my dream a chance. There's a bit too much \"can't do\" attitude. Well, let me tell you something. We don't do \"can't do\". We only do \"can do\". It's a partnership to restore civil society. A civil partnership, if you like. And it takes two. That's my dream: you, too, can do the two-can-do society. Is that so hard for people to understand? D Cameron Dear Mr Cameron With your background in public relations, you should recognise when a product is in trouble. You've been flogging the big society for a while and it isn't selling. The longer it sits on the shelves, the less people will want a part of it. You need a rebrand. For a start, the political speech and town hall meeting approach to publicity is a turn-off. You need a big, headline-grabbing event to mobilise people \u2013 Society Aid. And you should start work on a charity single straight away to grab the Christmas number one slot. Maybe a cover version of It Takes Two, featuring you and a meals-on-wheels volunteer from Telford. And, of course, you need someone non-political fronting the whole thing. Someone very famous with a reputation for good works and getting things done. Bono, maybe, or Bob Geldof. Bob the Builder? Dear Dr Mander I co-founded Facebook when I was at college. Now I'm a billionaire at the age of 26. Wild, huh? I'm so big they even made a movie about my life. People say that, with all the data the site collects and its ability to reach more than 500 million users, it's too powerful. But I still feel like a bit player. I mean, Google really works the data monopoly thing. And then there's Murdoch's News Corp hogging political influence. Apple and Microsoft have got hardware sewn up. Meanwhile, I've got Twitter at my heels. I'd really like a shot at global corporate media hegemony, but I'm not sure what my next move should be. M Zuckerberg Dear Mr Zuckerberg You're right \u2013 the competition to be Evil Corporate Supremo is pretty fierce. In fact, that market might be saturated. I think you need a new angle. Everything has been about markets for so long now maybe it's time that states made a comeback. You could really steal a march on rivals by forming a nation and offering your 500 million users citizenship. You'd be one of the biggest countries in the world overnight. For territory, you could rent an island from a cash-strapped western government. Colonise the Isle of Wight, secede from the UK and join the UN as the independent republic of Facebook. Dear Dr Mander Please advise me. I live in a shoe and I have so many children, I don't know what to do! Old Woman Dear Mrs Woman In line with coalition policy, I feel obliged to point out that you chose to have all of those children and should take responsibility for them. If your income means you qualify as a higher-rate taxpayer you will no longer be entitled to child benefit. If you are out of work, qualify for housing benefit, but the rent on your shoe exceeds the new cap, you can always move to alternative footwear in a cheaper area. Dr Gerry Mander shares his consulting room with Rafael Behr",
  "title": "Dr Gerry Mander: the therapist the stars trust",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/davidcameron",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": "Dr Gerry Mander: Why does no one take my 'big society' seriously?",
  "id": "commentisfree/2010/oct/10/gerry-mander-david-cameron-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}