{
  "content": "The Flip MinoHD advertises itself as the world's smallest high-definition camcorder. Its really is a smart piece of simple-to-use technology designed for people who want to grab short colour video clips of things mainly within touching distance they can later upload to the web. And what clips! Developers' claims of \"stunning\" picture clarity didn't seem far off the mark during the pleasant week I spent playing with the thing. It's even acceptable in low light. Good though captured images are, they almost seem secondary to just how pocket-friendly the MinoHD is. It weighs a mere 3.3oz and is smaller than my mobile phone. The \u00a3170 price tag seems reasonable-ish for an HD device - but when you consider the kind of thing you'd shoot, it starts to look a little pricey. The MinoHD isn't what you'd call feature rich, but that's one of its charms. The one-touch recording - via the big red button on the back - made it simple just to fish out of a pocket and record on the hoof. A day's worth of shooting little clips, playing back and deleting didn't seem to place too great a strain on the internal lithium-ion battery, which recharges though the USB when you're hooked up to the computer. The digital display counts down to remind you how much recording time you have left. The 4GB of built-in flash memory means that countdown starts at 60 minutes - more than enough for the kind of things you'll end up shooting. Remember, though, that a heavy-duty video camera it is not. To wit, perhaps the biggest letdown is the quality of the audio. It distorts too easily and picks up all manner of background noise. Other drawbacks also come when you expect too much of it. The 2x digital zoom isn't really worth bothering with. But why zoom? It's better just to get things that are close. The 1.5in LCD screen on the back is just to help you compose your shots and really doesn't give a true reflection of quality. Nor does it have a single-photo function. However, HD stills can be grabbed from video clip in FlipShare, the built-in software. FlipShare also allows users to send video greeting cards, burn to DVDs, quick uploads to YouTube, MySpace (but not Facebook) and easy emailing of clips. What it doesn't do is allow editing more sophisticated than trimming clips and simple titles. Look to the standard built-in video editing packages on your Macs and PCs (both of which the MinoHD is compatible with) if you want to piece together a film and add transitions. All in all, it's a great little plaything for high-quality quick close-up videos, but if you're looking to shoot a low-budget Citizen Kane - forget it. Pros: Quick and easy to use; great picture quality; fun Cons: Poor audio; no photo function; poor zoom; only in black theflip.com",
  "title": "Technophile: Flip's new MinoHD",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/gadgets",
    "technology/youtube",
    "technology/digitalvideo",
    "technology/photography",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/myspace",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Flip's new MinoHD shoots video to absolutely die for - what a pity, then, that the sound is so bad",
  "id": "technology/2009/apr/09/technophile-flip-minohd",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}