{
  "content": "Jeanette Winterson is a skilled and serious novelist; to her readers, the following will not surprise. She posted a photograph of a rabbit on Twitter. The rabbit was completely dead; it will never console a Disney princess now. It was half-skinned. To sentimental eyes, it looked undressed and merely sleeping. What happened? It was, at least partially, a revenge killing. \"Rabbit ate my parsley,\" Winterson wrote. \"I am eating the rabbit.\" She then posted a montage of the End of Rabbit, a sort of Jackie photo story but nightmarish: rabbit skinned; rabbit jointed; rabbit cooking with rosemary and thyme on the Aga (that might be an offence in itself, to some); rabbit's entrails \u2013 and this is my favourite, because it is so deliberately transgressive \u2013 being eaten by a cat that is in league with Winterson. (A familiar, perhaps?) Winterson may be playing the child that became a crone (readers of Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit will have their own opinion), but she adds evidence in her defence: photographs of devoured roses, chewed sprouts \u2013 the evil that Rabbit did. So a skilled and serious novelist, turning suddenly to food writing: it should become a genre in its own right. Perhaps Donna Tartt will murder a hamster, or Jonathan Franzen a guinea pig? The late Kingsley Amis could probably have managed a bison by himself. In any case, Twitter shook its fist and wept. Twitter is an activist in search of a cause, and it is sentimental. It cries easily. Perhaps Winterson was angry or lonely. Perhaps she was simply hungry, as in the cartoon Family Guy, when Peter Griffin and Bill Clinton got high, thought of bacon sandwiches, and tried to kill a pig. But this is hardly the point. It is fascinating to ponder though \u2013 the bored and clever novelist rewriting Beatrix Potter in the style of Quentin Tarantino and eating the ending. (Winterson to Potter is as Jean Rhys to Charlotte Bront\u00eb. Effortlessly, she makes her look naive.) Winterson has always had that peculiar and raging kind of courage; she once nominated her own novel Written On the Body for book of the year. In her memoir \u2013 Why Be Happy When You Could Be Normal? \u2013 she writes: \"That part of me, living alone, hidden, in a filthy abandoned lair, has always been able to stage a raid on the rest of the territory. My violent rages, my destructive behaviour, my own need to destroy love \u2026\" This may be true of certain episodes in her life, but not this time. This execution is defensible. It is a lesson about food; we should forget Flopsy, Mopsy and Cotton-tail and how we confuse them with our own beloved children, and hear it. We have, on the whole, two responses to animals: sentimentality and cruelty. The sentimental divide animals into the cute and the foul, much as fashion does to people; the cute must be cherished, even if they are pests, and the foul can go to hell, even if they are useful. I do not mind the adventures of Mrs Rabbit and her children, but they should not concern adults, or influence the RSPCA's policy adventures. An adult who weeps for a humanely killed rabbit (I cannot believe Winterson would torture anything beyond herself, and possibly a critic) weeps too much; who can be so de-politicised? Winterson said: \"no waste, no packaging, no processing, no food miles\"; and she is right, even if good sense means nothing next to a photogenic corpse, even when the way we process food devours everything. It is more humane, of course, to treat animals kindly, and then eat them, than to either fetishise or torture them in factories \u2013 unless they are now celebrities? Must we treat them like actors? I yearn to know what proportion of the anguished have eaten factory-farmed sausages or chickens. Many, I would say; but a chicken is an ugly sister to a rabbit, and therefore less deserving of tears. Winterson would have done better, perhaps, had she looked \u2013 or behaved \u2013 more like a moron's version of a rabbit, endowed with childlike innocence for smiles. But that is not her way. She is a novelist, and she has done with her knife and her pot as she does with her pen: she told the truth, in arresting fashion. Perhaps another novel now? Twitter: @TanyaGold1",
  "title": "Jeanette Winterson and the rabbit of truth | Tanya Gold",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "books/jeanettewinterson",
    "world/animals",
    "world/world",
    "lifeandstyle/food-and-drink",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "environment/food",
    "environment/environment",
    "technology/twitter",
    "books/books",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "books/potter-beatrix"
  ],
  "lead": "Tanya Gold: By giving Beatrix Potter's beast the Tarantino treatment, Winterson cuts through the sentimentality of her critics",
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/jun/19/jeanette-winterson-rabbit-truth-beatrix-potter-tarantino",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}