{
  "content": "Botreadwell asks: I have a few questions about police authority, particularly relating to arrests and searches eg \"What information am I obliged to give to a policeman at what point?\" and: \"What information is a police officer legally obliged to give me when arresting, searching or detaining me?.\" Where can I go to find out the answers to these questions and more? For purposes of this advice, I will focus on police powers of stop and search. It is important that people know their rights in relation to these widely used powers. Liberty is concerned that stop and search powers are often used in a disproportionate and unjustifiable way, particularly in relation to black and ethnic minority people. A recent Equalities and Human Rights Commission report suggests that black people are six times more likely to be subjected to stop and search procedures than white people, and Asian people twice as likely as white people to be stopped and searched. The law and guidance Most of the information you need will be found in the Police and Criminal Evidence Act (PACE) 1984 along with its codes of practice. The codes are very user-friendly and you can access them and other information about police powers on the Home Office website. The legislation and the codes set out the circumstances in which a police officer can stop you, search you and arrest you. You may want to look at the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act (CJPOA) 1994 and the Terrorism Act (TA) 2000, too, because they contain further powers of stop and search. Police officers have many powers to stop and search people without arresting them. The main power is under PACE. Community support officers do not have a power to stop and search people under PACE (though they can stop and search under s44 TA, see below). The first thing to know is that a police officer can only search you if he has a legal power to do so \u2013 this sounds obvious but it is clearly designed to protect against arbitrary interference from the police (though some would say this protection has been massively undermined by the CJPOA and TA search provisions anyway, see below). This is the case, even if you yourself consent to the search (unless your consent to being searched is a condition of entry to premises, such as a sports ground, in which case, the stop and search may be legal). Stops and searches where a police officer needs to have reasonable suspicion In order to stop and search you under PACE, the police officer (who does not need to be in uniform) must have reasonable grounds to suspect that you have in your possession a stolen article, or an offensive weapon (which can be an article made for or adapted for or intended for use in connection with certain offences), a prohibited article, a prohibited firework or a bladed or sharply pointed instrument. The article that the officer suspects you of having can be suspected of being on your person somewhere, or in your vehicle. In addition to PACE, there is a power of stop and search under the Misuse of Drugs (MDA) Act 1971. Under s23(2) MDA, a police officer can stop and search a person if the officer has reasonable grounds to suspect that person of possessing a controlled (illegal) drug. The statute specifically allows for the person to be detained to allow the search to take place, and for the vehicle to be searched. This is one of the most commonly used powers. Under s43 TA 2000, a police officer can stop and search someone who they \"reasonably believe\" to be a terrorist, in order to discover whether they have anything in their possession which may be evidence of this. There are other search powers in other statutes as well. What is reasonable suspicion? The codes explain that reasonable suspicion must be based on objective facts or information. It can never be on the basis of \"personal factors\" alone \u2013 ie a person's race, age, appearance, or the fact that they are known to have a previous conviction cannot, by itself, justify a stop and search. The code specifically states that reasonable suspicion cannot be based upon stereotypes or generalisations about certain groups of people or their religion. If a police officer encounters a member of the public during the normal course of events (ie the police officer has no grounds to suspect the person of anything), but during the course of the encounter, the police officer becomes suspicious, then as long as the above criteria are satisfied, the officer can then stop and search the person, even though at the time that they first encountered each other, there were no grounds to stop and search. Stops and searches where a police officer does not need to have reasonable suspicion There are, in addition to these powers, further powers of stop and search which do not require the police officer to have reasonable suspicion. These are: S60 CJPOA 1994. A s60 authorisation can be applied for in an area if an inspector \"reasonably believes\" that incidents involving serious violence might take place, or that people are carrying dangerous instruments or offensive weapons, or that an incident involving serious violence has taken place in the area and that someone may be carrying an instrument or weapon used in the incident. The authorisation can last up to 24 hours but can be extended by a further 24. If a s60 authorisation is in force, a police officer in uniform can stop and search people or vehicles to look for offensive weapons or dangerous instruments. He does not need to have reasonable suspicion that the individual he wants to stop and search is carrying such an item. Liberty has had many queries from young people stopped and searched under this power. One of our young clients was stopped and searched three times over two days during the last Notting Hill Carnival (when a s60 authorisation was in force) resulting on the last occasion in his lodging a complaint of excessive force against the police officer conducting the search (a complaint which, incidentally, was recently upheld by the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC)). His experience is not unusual. S44 Terrorism Act 2000. This allows a police officer in uniform to stop and search a person or vehicle without reasonable suspicion. This can only be done in areas where an authorisation made by a chief police officer and confirmed by the home secretary is in place. Liberty has long been campaigning against this power, which has frequently been used against peaceful protesters. We took a case to the European Court of Human Rights on behalf of our clients, Pennie Quinton and Kevin Gillan. Our clients were a journalist and peace protester (respectively) attending an arms fair in London and were subjected to lengthy stop and search procedures. It became clear that the whole of London had been secretly designated a stop and search area under s44 on a rolling basis since 2001. Earlier this year, the court of human rights in Strasbourg ruled that this wide-ranging power was not subject to sufficient safeguards and that our clients' rights under Article 8 (the right to privacy) had been violated. We are waiting to see whether the government is to be allowed to appeal the decision. For the time being, the law remains in force although the new government states that it will restore rights to peaceful protesters, so watch this space. We have written in more detail about s44 for the Liberty Clinic before. Conducting the search An officer must give you the following information: \u2022 The officer must tell you that you are being detained for purposes of a search; \u2022 The officer must give you his/her name and their police station; \u2022 If they are not in uniform, the officer must show you proof that they are a police officer; \u2022 The officer must state the legal power which allows them to stop and search you; \u2022 The officer must provide a clear explanation as to the purpose of the search, the ground for suspicion (if this is in fact a requirement, see above) and any necessary authorisation; \u2022 The officer must tell you that you are entitled to a formal record of the search. The officer must make a contemporaneous note of the search unless there are exceptional reasons and it would be wholly impractical to do so. A copy of the search record must be provided to you. This is important \u2013 always keep a record of any or all stop and search slips. In addition: \u2022 The search must be conducted at or near the place where the person was stopped; \u2022 If a search requires the removal of more than outer clothing, this cannot usually be done in public. An officer may use reasonable force to carry out a search, but only once it has become apparent that a person is unwilling to co-operate, or resists. The use of force must be kept to a minimum. Finally, I should add that there is no statutory power for the police to require someone to \"stop and account\" for themselves, but the police can and do frequently do so. The police are entitled to ask you what you are up to, but unless they exercise their further powers of stop and search (as above) or arrest you, you are entitled to walk away \u2013 though please see our first advice clinic piece when we advised that it might be sensible to confirm your basic details. If the police do stop and ask you to account for your presence in a place, you do not have do provide any personal details and the police must, according to the codes, make a record of your ethnicity. Clearly all these powers engage important human rights principles. In the Gillan and Quinton case, the court found that the state's wide-ranging authorisation powers and practice of stop and search were not subject to adequate enough safeguards to be considered \"in accordance with the law\" and the law and practice was declared in violation of Article 8 (the right to privacy). Any deprivation of liberty potentially engages Article 5 too, the right to liberty. If people do feel that they have been subjected to excessive and unjustified stops and searches, they should seek specialist legal advice.",
  "title": "What information am I obliged to give to a policeman? | Emma Norton",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/stop-and-search",
    "uk/police",
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "inequality/inequality",
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uksecurity"
  ],
  "lead": "Liberty Clinic: Question 57: Botreadwell wants details relating to arrests and searches, such as what information to give, and what to ask for",
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2010/jun/09/what-information-am-i-obliged-to-give-to-a-policeman",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}