{
  "content": "Ross Douthat, the smart young face of conservatism who writes for the New York Times, takes on the Rand Paul implosion of last week, describing it as \"offensive, tone deaf and politically crazy,\" labeling Paul and his father Ron as \"paleoconservatives\": The problem is that paleoconservatives are self-marginalizing, and self-destructive. Like many groups that find themselves in intellectually uncharted territory, they have trouble distinguishing between ideas that deserve a wider hearing and ideas that are crankish or worse. (Hence Ron Paul's obsession with the gold standard and his son's weakness for conspiracy theories.) Like many outside-the-box thinkers, they're good at applying their principles more consistently than your average partisan, but lousy at knowing when to stop. (Hence the tendency to see civil rights legislation as just another unjustified expansion of federal power.) Michael Kinsley \u2013 the man who gave us the definition of Kinsley's law of gaffes as \"when a politician accidentally tells the truth\" \u2013 returns to the theme: Rand Paul (son of Ron) is surely sorry he ever wandered into this thicket. He made the classic political beginner's mistake of listening to a question, thinking about it, and then answering it honestly. The Austin Statesman newspaper reports that a student hall of residence at the University of Texas may be renamed after revelations that William Simkins, the law professor after which it was named, had a racist past as a leader of the KKK: Simkins, who was a Confederate colonel during the war, said in a Thanksgiving Day speech on campus in 1914 and in an article two years later in the Alcalde, the alumni magazine, that he never drew blood as a Klansman. He admitted assaulting a black man, participating in a train robbery and sowing fear in Florida's \"black belt\" as a masked night rider. \"The immediate effect upon the Negro was wonderful, the flitting to and fro of masked horses and faces struck terror to the race,\" Simkins wrote. When a white woman in Florida complained of being insulted by a black man, Simkins wrote, \"I seized a barrel stave lying near the hotel door and whipped that darkey down the street.\" Rachel Sklar at Mediate does a good job fisking the milquetoast comment piece by Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg in the Washington Post today: Zuckerberg deflects the real issue, which is that Facebook has been super-sneaking in finding ways to get AROUND those principles, ways to justify them with aforementioned click-boxes and, oh, more than 50 privacy buttons which lead through to more than 170 options. Top blogger Amanda Marcotte lays out why she liked the finale of Lost (and judging by the response, she may be the only one): I saw people bitching about the finale online, and I think honestly that there was just so much expectation that it would suck, people went right for that instead of letting it sit in for a second. But there were two main objections to it, and one I think can be resolved pretty quickly, and the other pretty much never. Some people were clearly pissed that the exposition fairy took the day off when they were writing this finale. They wanted mysteries solved in clean, clear-cut ways.",
  "title": "Linkorama: Rand Paul, Facebook, Lost | Richard Adams",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "tv-and-radio/lost",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/mark-zuckerberg",
    "us-news/republicans",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world",
    "us-news/rand-paul",
    "us-news/us-politics"
  ],
  "lead": "Richard Adams: Rand Paul the paleoconservative, Facebook's latest apology, the University of Texas's KKK shame, the last of Lost",
  "id": "world/richard-adams-blog/2010/may/24/lost-facebook-zuckerberg-rand-paul-kkk",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}