{
  "content": "News International strongly denied the Guardian's story about widespread phone hacking at the News of the World. It attacked the Guardian for being \"selective and misleading\" in its coverage. It also criticised reporting by other news outlets including ITN and the BBC and Sky News, which is part owned by News International's parent company News Corporation. In a wide ranging statement, News International denied that police had evidence of widespread hacking into voicemails of celebrities and politicians, including John Prescott, or that News of the World executives knowingly sanctioned payment for illegal phone intercepts. News International said it could state \"with confidence\" that there was no phone hacking at the paper apart from the incidents that led to the jailing of private investigator Glenn Mulcaire and its royal reporter Clive Goodman, and the accessing of voicemails that led to litigation involving Gordon Taylor, the chief executive of the Professional Footballers' Association. This is the first time News International has publicly acknowledged the Taylor litigation. The Guardian reported earlier this week that the Murdoch company paid more than \u00a31m in costs and damages to settle the case with Taylor and two other associated cases. News International said \"with confidence\" there was no other evidence to support allegations that any other News of the World journalists had accessed the voicemails of any individual, or instructed others to do so. \"It goes without saying that had the police uncovered such evidence, charges would have been brought against other News of the World personnel. Not only have there been no such charges, but the police have not considered it necessary to arrest or question any other member of News of the World staff.\" In response, Guardian News &amp; Media said: \"We are pleased that News International has, for the first time, confirmed its out-of-court settlement with Gordon Taylor over the illegal interception of his phone messages. \"We note that the company claims to have known about the Taylor phone hacking since April 2008. It is surprising that \u2013 having assured parliament, the Press Complaints Commission and the public \u2013 that jailed royal reporter Clive Goodman was an \"aberration\" and a one-off, the company chose to conceal this discovery, which involved other journalists, rather than put the record straight.\" News International invited the Guardian to supply the Metropolitan police with any new evidence. GNM said in reply that News International should release material they requested be sealed in the Taylor case and the two associated legal actions. It called upon News International to ask Scotland Yard to release all the documents and evidence obtained during and after the investigation into Goodman and Mulcaire. The Guardian also said News International should make available for public questioning its former chief executive, Les Hinton. News International said that when Hinton gave evidence to the House of Commons select committee in March 2007, he had no knowledge of the evidence that emerged during the Gordon Taylor litigation in April 2008. It added: \"Since February 2007, News International has continued to work with its journalists and its industry partners to ensure that its journalists fully comply with both the relevant legislation and the rigorous requirements of the PCC's Code of Conduct.\" Finally, we would like to make it clear that despite the Guardian suggesting otherwise, the departure of managing editor Stuart Kuttner has no connection whatsoever with the events referred to above. The Guardian was informed of this position from the outset and chose to mislead the British public.\"",
  "title": "News International attacks hacking claims as 'selective and misleading'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/theguardian",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Media group issues statement denying Guardian's story about widespread phone hacking at News of the World",
  "id": "media/2009/jul/10/news-international-statement-guardian",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}