{
  "content": "Given what we now know about the human brain, it is clear that prolonged exposure to an unnatural environment like the House of Lords must have a damaging effect. If the ageing brain is artificially denied stimulation over a long period, it might lead to a condition almost indistinguishable from idiocy. The effects on communication have been documented for years. Now some leading neuro-scientists are suggesting that flashing lights and bells be fitted to go off regularly in the chamber, in order to induce in members something resembling an average attention span. Certainly, until something is done, we are unlikely to see an end to embarrassments such as last week's inconclusive debate on social network regulation. It had barely begun when leading neuroscientist and \"people's peer\" Baroness Susan Greenfield abruptly abandoned the official subject in order to prophesy, instead, the sensationalism, infantilism, autism, callousness and myriad other brain catastrophes now in store for the Facebook-using generation. \"It is hard,\" warned the baroness, whose own mental agility developed during that golden age for humans, roughly between our leaving the savannah and setting up the internet, \"to see how living in this way on a daily basis will not result in brains or, rather, minds different from those of previous generations.\" Attention spans, she warned, would be one of the first things to go. Was it any coincidence that the \"near total submersion of our culture in screen technologies\" has coincided with escalating prescriptions for ADHD? It was another unproved, but, at this stage, equally unverifiable Greenfield hunch that too much time in front of a screen might instil in blighted minds a \"much more marked preference for the here and now, where the immediacy of the experience trumps any regard for the consequences\". The baroness, having been increasingly obliged to issue her warnings without any academic evidence, must be only too aware of the hazards. But speak she must. Because an unnamed teacher has told the baroness that this same Facebook generation is also bereft of empathy, owing to not reading enough books. But is it any coincidence, some neuroscientists must be wondering, that this hardening has occurred over exactly the same period that pitiless Lord Voldemort, of the Harry Potter books, has had the opportunity to alter the brain chemistry of millions of young readers? Drawing on the very latest developments in social networking and on something she read by a psychotherapist, Greenfield prefers to implicate sites that encourage users to define themselves by responses of others. \"Hence,\" she said, \"the baffling current preoccupation with posting an almost moment-by-moment, flood-of-consciousness account - I believe it is called Twitter - of your thoughts and activities, however banal.\" Over on Twitter, the response to this criticism seems to have been muted, partly because, as Greenfield will be aware, a medium that constantly asks the question \"What are you doing?\" is not perfectly designed for discussion. But if anything, Twitterers probably enjoyed it. There are few things earlyish adopters of a new device for social networking like better than to witness the power of their chosen medium to mystify, dismay and for as long as possible exclude less adventurous consumers. One explanation for the migration to Twitter, surely, is the arrival of grandparents on Facebook, recently followed by John Prescott's advertisement of 25 things we didn't know about him. Indeed, it will be interesting to see how quickly he can destroy the allure of Twitter. Though even the oldest among us can see that Facebook represents a marvellous saving on stamps, Twitter emphasises its desirability by being unfathomable to anyone a bit inflexible or busy who is neither a self-promoter nor an exhibitionist. Why would you want to answer the question \"What are you doing?\" in up to 140 characters? If such questions only betray one's dizzying proximity to the grave, there is also much on Twitter to comfort the mature visitor. The abundance of tweets, even from more dashing contributors, saying things like \"about to have breakfast\", \"too tired\", or \"Masterchef final was very good\" confirms that age has finally surrendered its monopoly on unembarrassed inanity. Indeed, when the first genuinely interesting tweet is posted, as in \"looking down at my grey, motionless body\", or the simpler \"dying\", it is likely to come from an older subscriber. A much more surprising thing about Twitter, if you can be bothered to look, is the degree of self-consciousness among participants about the nature of their new hobby. Long before Baroness Greenfield and her fellow critics decided that Twitter's function is to remind members of an insecure generation that they exist, its victims had agreed that one of its main purposes was to make them feel close to celebrities such as Stephen Fry, who is generous with his travel impressions. For instance: \"What a beautiful town.\" The comedian has also dazzled followers with his use of the word steatopygous (from the Greek for fat-arsed). \"I absolutely love it when you send me running for my dictionary,\" tweets one, gratefully. Is it possible that, quite understandably, and like many older people, Baroness Greenfield merely finds this new craze silly and irritating? And then reacts, rather as parents once did to pop music and short skirts, by insisting that Twittering must be injurious to health? In a new way that is so utterly sinister, you won't see the result for years. Search as she might, this scientist is going to have difficulty proving that swapping twerpish thoughts on breakfast is harmful to the brain. And what, moreover, would Twitter's critics prefer fans of Stephen Fry to do instead? Oliver James thinks no one would twitter \"if they had a strong sense of identity\". Let us picture them, instead, studying Coleen Rooney's steatopygous style tips in OK! magazine. Or browsing through a wholesome misery memoir, or meditating privately on Jade, or shopping in Primark. They may, however, want to think twice before investing \u00a388 in a MindFit, as endorsed by Baroness Greenfield. Not now that research confirms that this, and similar \"brain training\" systems are no more likely to improve your brain than, say, telling people on Twitter that you feel tired. Obviously a leisure dedicated entirely to Twitter, Facebook or any other on-screen activity is likely to strike most educated people as a sad waste. But a lot of these people will themselves be enjoying some sort of online social life or even, as Age Concern confirms with its IT events, come to rely on this alternative to complete isolation. The Lords are right to want to protect vulnerable users from exploitation and from the inadvertent creation of an indelible archive of social networking follies. What a pity that their discussion of regulation should have been hijacked last week by Greenfield's latest, astonishingly unscientific outburst. Why does she do it? In no more than 140 characters, I would say it has something to do with needing recognition in order to confirm that she exists. Still: she could always use a pseudonym. Off now for my tea.",
  "title": "Catherine Bennett: Baroness Greenfield, you are being a complete twit about Twitter",
  "lead": "Catherine Bennett: Networking websites may be full of inane chatter, but there's absolutely no proof they do anyone any harm",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "politics/health",
    "politics/politics",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/mar/01/twitter-facebook-social-network-regulation",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}