{
  "content": "You can pass the fiercest privacy laws in Europe, but, historically, they don't stop Franco-Italian celebrity magazines running pictures of the Duchess of York having her toe sucked, the Grimaldis of Monaco in all sorts of private moments \u2013 or, now, the Duchess of Cambridge with her top off. Nor are debates about \"the public interest\" much heeded in the European paparazzi game parks. The British press didn't publish the snaps of topless Kate and wouldn't have dreamed of doing so long before Leveson (or even the birth of the Press Complaints Commission, I think). Private estates offer \"a reasonable expectation of privacy\". But this is France, not Wales. And it's time to cool down. National law, locally enforced, can address some problems. It can make phone-hacking a criminal offence, for instance. But a few fuzzy topless snaps, published in Paris and Milan in a trice (and Ireland, if Dickie Desmond so decrees) \u2013 and all over Twitter in two minutes anyway? You can see why William, remembering his mother, should decide to sue. You can see why British editors, anxious to stress the sanctity of their embattled system, should call for heavier fines and retribution (in France). And you can see why lawyers are willing to go through the necessary motions (for a fee). But it needs saying that none of this now makes much sense. The law in the US, where Prince Harry was playing strip billiards, finds no First Amendment offence in putting such snaps on the web. If whoever took photos of the royals wanted to sell them to a US celebrity site instead, he or she could do so unhindered. Suing won't address this while there is no relevant international law to apply. Suing merely conflates the story. If governments want to do something positive about it, they should get together and start harmonising their constitutions. Fat chance! The most obvious trouble with Leveson is that he's working on one corner of the problem (the press) in one small sub-country (England). And the most sensible advice to anyone concerned about privacy? Don't take your top off on a sun-baked Provence terrace you can see from the road. That's like holding a vegetarian convention in lion country. And while we're on the subject, don't kiss a woman who isn't your wife in a Soho street or crowded park if you'd be embarrassed by what transpires. Privacy begins at home.",
  "title": "Not even Leveson can protect Kate's privacy in Provence",
  "lead": "Peter Preston: In British terms, The Duchess of Cambridge had a 'clear expectation of privacy' in France, but no international law exists that could enforce it",
  "tags": [
    "uk/duchess-of-cambridge",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/france",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2012/sep/16/kate-paparazzi-duchess-cambridge-privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}