{
  "content": "Viacom has become the latest recruit to Twitter's Amplify program, which aims to team up broadcasters and brands for sponsored tweets including video highlights from live events and shows. The guinea pig for the latest partnership will be the MTV Video Music Awards (VMAs) on 25 August, building on MTV's social media efforts in previous years around its flagship awards event. \"The VMAs virtually pioneered the social-TV moment, triggering a demand among marketers to tap into the fan conversations and trending topics that Viacom networks create every day,\" said Viacom's head of sales Jeff Lucas in a statement. \"Through this partnership, we're allowing marketers to insert their brands seamlessly into the torrent of fan activity and engagement around our networks on Twitter.\" Previous broadcasters and sports body working with Twitter under the Amplify banner include ESPN, Turner Sports and the NBA, with campaigns that involved tweeting sports highlights sponsored by brands including Ford, AT&amp;T and Coca-Cola. Viacom says that this year's VMAs event will spawn tweets with backstage footage, interviews and performances, although the sponsors have yet to be announced. The partnership was announced as Twitter made its pitch to TV advertisers at the Cannes Lions conference, in a presentation that (according to Twitter's own write-up, at least) made the case for the Twitter buzz around big TV shows as creating \"waves of synchronous conversations about culture and events that the world has never seen before\". Earlier this year, Twitter's head of broadcast partnerships in the UK, Dan Biddle, said that 80% of UK Twitter users access the service from a mobile device some of the time, with television a popular topic for their tweets. \"40% of tweets in the UK during peak-time television hours are about television. Twitter is the room that we're watching television in,\" said Biddle. Twitter is far from the only company trying to make money from all this second-screen activity, though. Another firm pitching to advertisers at the Cannes Lions was Shazam, whose mobile app has more than 60m active users tagging music, TV shows and ads to find out what they are (in music's case) and to access additional content and offers (for TV and ads). Shazam's big announcement in Cannes was something called \"Shazam Engagement Rate\", the company's own metric to judge the effectiveness of TV ads driving people to tag using its app. Shazam says the metric will combine independent data from Nielsen on how many people see a particular advert with its own stats on how many people tagged it using the Shazam app, with the aim of showing which ads are doing the best job at persuading viewers to interact. \"By showing brands where they are seeing actual engagement \u2013 not just viewers, but people who are leaning in and asking for more information \u2013 Shazam is able to provide an entirely new service to advertisers: measurement and accountability on how effectively an ad campaign connects with the target audience,\" said chief executive Rich Riley. Shazam says it has been used for more than 250 TV ads so far, mainly in the US although its service is rolling out in the UK too. For now, the Shazam Engagement Rate stats will only be available in the US. Meanwhile, technology firm Gracenote is hoping to spur a new wave of second-screen apps for individual shows and channels, with the release of an audio fingerprinting API for developers to make apps that hear where a viewer is in a show, and serve content up accordingly. The technology has already been used in the US for second-screen apps like NBC Universal's Syfy for iPad, which synchronises with shows as they air.",
  "title": "Second-screen TV heats up for Viacom, Twitter, Shazam and Gracenote",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/apps",
    "media/mtv",
    "media/viacom",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/smartphones",
    "technology/tablet-computer",
    "technology/television",
    "media/television",
    "media/advertising",
    "media/cannes-lions-2013",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "New attempts to reach smartphone and tablet-using viewers, and measure their engagement too. By Stuart Dredge",
  "id": "technology/appsblog/2013/jun/20/second-screen-tv-mtv-twitter-shazam",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}