{
  "content": "Just last week Japan broke a world record and sent 143,109 tweets per second over one event. Was it a revolution? Did Beyonc\u00e9 drop a new single? Was another royal baby born? No, it was a TV show. The record came at a key moment during the annual re-airing of the classic animated movie Castle in the Sky, and it just shows the power that Twitter has over those watching TV. Nielsen, the company that has been studying audiences since before televisions were even in nearly every home in the US, has finally found a way to quantify the number of tweets related to our favorite programming. As anyone who has ever glimpsed at their feed during the VMAs, CMAs, AMAs or any other MAs that have nothing to do with graduate degrees can tell you, Twitter influences ratings, and ratings influence what is happening in social media. File that under \"duh.\" Just as Neilsen seems like it's getting hip to how we watch TV now, it's showing once again how behind the times it is. In a study released on Tuesday, the company looked at 221 broadcast primetime episodes and saw that the shows with higher ratings had an impact on what people were tweeting in 48% of the cases. Even more important, chatter on Twitter improved live ratings for TV shows 29% of the time. That's way bigger than anyone ever thought. Still, this is not new news. People on Twitter (in particular black people on Twitter) have made a hit out of Scandal, ABC's ridiculous political drama that is a favorite on the social service. As noted above, awards shows have been reaping the benefits of increased ratings of those live-tweeting the proceedings for years. Now, Nielsen and Twitter are going to start regularly publishing \"Nielsen Twitter TV Ratings\" so we can all see what we already know: people are watching TV live these days so that they can talk about it with friends and strangers on their iPhone, Surface or non-branded laptop. While it's great that Nielsen is finally figuring out the new technology, this is another step in the wrong direction. What makes the new rating so appealing to Nielsen \u2013 and the channels and advertisers who subscribe to their services \u2013 is that Twitter is making people watch TV live. How else can you follow along with all the oblique references (spoiler-phobes beware) and hashtags unless you sit through the live airing? That means that viewers are now watching the commercials too. Even people with DVRs will forgo the power to fast forward through commercials so that they can have the communal experience of sitting in the internet's living room and watching a show with millions of people. Yes, watching something live is all that matters to the powers that be in TV. That is precisely the problem. For as much as this is a leap to embrace new technology, Nielsen is only doing it because it's the one thing that is bringing people back to watching TV the old way, the one way they can track. Even with this great Twitter Score on the horizon (which is basically Klout for fictional characters) it still doesn't account for how we watch TV now. Television is no longer about must-see TV and sitting on your sofa starting at 8pm on the dot to watch your show. TV is now about DVRing it and starting it 15 minutes late so you can avoid the commercials. TV is now about watching the episode the next day for free on CBS.com (or the following week on Hulu) while you pretend to do work at your desk. TV is now about downloading a show on iTunes, or maybe even the whole season, and watching it at your leisure. TV is now about streaming it to your phone so you can enjoy it on the commute home. TV is now about tweeting and Facebooking during a live broadcast and then rewinding the show to make GIFs of all the reality stars' funny faces to post on Tumblr. That is what TV is now, but is Nielsen trying to measure any of that? No, it is not. Nielsen still only cares about people who watch shows live. This is foolish. Part of the reason TV content providers have been slow to change how they monetize their content is because there is no reliable way to track commercials and other income generating strategies. Why? Because Nielsen is still essentially calling people on land lines and asking if they're watching Ozzie &amp; Harriet or Leave It To Beaver. Aside from its Twitter innovation, it can't keep up with all the different ways we're all Keeping Up with the Kardashians. That is a huge problem. Instead of relying on Twitter to coax the audience back into watching shows live, Nielsen and every TV channel should be trying to figure out the next big way to get us watching ads and how to track those so that companies that advertise will find it relevant. If it can't, well, then it's doomed to failure. And while Twitter might be having a huge impact on television, it might even be obsolete in the near future. The newest disruption in how we consume television content is binge watching entire shows or seasons all at once, usually without any commercials at all. Thanks to Netflix, the must-watch show is Orange Is the New Black, but the problem is, with no live airings, it's virtually impossible to talk about on Twitter. And, because everyone can only see it on Netflix, there is no way to track how many people are actually watching it. Well, Netflix can track it, but it's not telling Nielsen or anyone else how many eyeballs are landing on its original series. Netflix has absolutely no use for Nielsen and, if Nielsen doesn't do better at innovating how they monitor shows and the people who watch them, no one else is going to have any use for them either.",
  "title": "Nielsen's tracking of Twitter's relation to TV is missing the point",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/tvratings",
    "tv-and-radio/us-television",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/ustelevision",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "lead": "Brian Moylan: Aside from its Twitter innovation, it can't keep up with all the different ways we're all Keeping Up with the Kardashians",
  "id": "media/2013/aug/07/neilsen-ratings-television-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}