{
  "content": "Silicon Valley, with its roots in a counter-culture of dreamy cyber-gurus and anti-establishment hackers, has always thought itself different. As Steve Jobs put it, they are \"the crazy ones, the misfits, the rebels, the troublemakers, the round pegs in square holes\". Unlike Wall St, so the press releases said, they did no evil. For nations looking to replicate the success of the Valley, the question has long been asked: why don't we have a Google, an Apple or a Facebook. It was asked again on BBC's flagship Today programme this morning. The question is a good one. To some the answer is money \u2013 there's a lack of patient, long-term capital in the City \u2013 and entrepreneurial culture, a lack of \"crazy ones\". Public money, in the form of defence spending and top-class research universities, made Silicon Valley. The advent of the personal computer as a tool for individual liberation introduced a culture of ethical egotism. With the arrival of social media, digital technology now considers itself a force for global good. It helps that science feels like a religion with a priesthood whose canonical texts cannot be easily understood by policymakers. Little wonder information technology has become one of the western world's most lightly regulated industries. The result is ruthless, red-in-tooth-and-claw capitalism. Many of the tech revolutionaries have simply invented new ways to extract huge profits by unregulated means. Despite the rhetoric of competition and markets, the ultimate aim of the tech evangelists is often to create monopolies which are the quickest ways to profit. Free social tools are concentrating wealth in the hands of a few programmers and investors. In search, that's Google (revenues $75bn). In social media, that's Facebook (1.65 billion users, sales $5bn). In online retail it's Amazon (last quarter profits of almost $900m). Politicians don't want to end up defending the past. But they need to regulate global giants in the national interest. Last year when Britain's Conservative-led coalition lifted the restriction on homeowners letting out their property for less than three months, it was supposed to benefit the \"sharing economy\". Instead, the big winner is Airbnb, the room booking app, which appears to be benefiting as flats get taken off the market to cater for high-paying short lets. This keeps prices high and makes it harder for low- and middle-income residents to live there. Despite claiming to reinvent travel, the secret behind Uber, the tax-hailing app, is that it circumvents local rules around safety and insurance. London mayor Sadiq Khan's plans to regulate the firm's drivers is a good step to privatise costs the app sought to socialise. Uber's use of customer data is instructive. It knows a person is more willing to accept higher or \"surge\" prices when their phone is about to run out of battery \u2013 but says it doesn't use this information to charge higher prices. We have no way of checking that. Uber, like other algorithm-driven firms, should be asked to reveal such practices, something that the government could look at during the passage of the digital economy bill. Today, an algorithm is increasingly likely to be your boss or tell you what to read. We should not be creating companies that ruthlessly exploit consumers and workers. Big data that sorts us into piles of \"worthy\" and \"unworthy\" needs to be transparent. We don't need Silicon Valley; we need responsible capitalism.",
  "title": "The Guardian view on technology's ethical egotism: about profits not people | Editorial",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/uber",
    "technology/airbnb",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/amazon",
    "business/business",
    "business/economics",
    "politics/economy",
    "us-news/us-news"
  ],
  "lead": " Silicon Valley has created companies that ruthlessly exploit consumers and workers. It should not be emulated",
  "id": "commentisfree/2016/sep/19/the-guardian-view-on-technologys-ethical-egotism-about-profits-not-people",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}