{
  "content": "Before Twitter, before Facebook, before Wi-Fi, before even the widespread use of email, back in the dark ages of dial up, there was the WELL. An acronym for Whole Earth 'Lectronic Link, it was one of the very first online communities, founded in 1985 and run for many years out of a dingy office on the Sausalito waterfront. As the name suggests, the WELL arose out of a fertile coupling between techno-visionaries and the California hippy scene. One of the founders was Stewart Brand, the editor of the Whole Earth Catalog, a counterculture bible with a readership already primed to grasp the benefits of online discussion and idea-exchange. These early WELL-dwellers, as they called themselves, cross-pollinated merrily with an eclectic mix of largely left-leaning journalists, hackers and politicos, alongside almost every Grateful Dead fan with access to a modem (it was the Deadhead population that kept the site financially afloat for years). Rooted in egalitarian notions of community and participation, the WELL set the template for the internet forum: as a salon organised into themes designed to provoke impassioned debate (in WELL parlance \"conferences\", which included Parenting, True Confessions and Weird). As the addictive habit of logging on to argue with total strangers took hold, so a community began to develop, complete with its own tribal behaviours and slang, among them \"beams\" for good wishes and \"scribbling\" for the practice of deleting posts. The fascinating story of the WELL's origins and legacy has been recounted several times, notably in 1997 in a long essay by Katie Hafner for Wired (later expanded into a book, The WELL). But @heaven doesn't exactly retread old ground. Working on the principle of show not tell, it dispenses almost entirely with analysis or critique in favour of directly transcribing one of the most dramatic periods of WELL existence. The book is evidently a labour of love on the part of its compiler Kim Hastreiter, best known as the editor of the fashion magazine Paper. She was a long-term lurker on the site, and two decades on remains haunted by an experience that played out in its chatrooms over the course of seven months. On 18 September 1994, a WELL-dweller who went by the username \"mandel\" (real identity Tom Mandel, a futurist at Stanford Research Institute and a consultant at Time Online) began Topic 1007 in the Health conference. He titled it \"Local Bug Report\" and at 16:21 wrote the first post, declaring his symptoms, which included a sore throat and mild fever. Fellow sufferers soon chimed in, engaging in a classic chatroom combination of home-diagnosis combined with more or less knowledgable advice and admonition. But unlike everyone else, Mandel's symptoms did not improve. On 18 October, he saw a consultant, who found two spots on his lungs, soon diagnosed as terminal lung cancer. Within a matter of months, \"Local Bug Report\" had transformed from an outpost of the health website WebMD into a gripping account of one man's terrifyingly swift journey towards death. The era of the cancer memoir began towards the end of the 20th century. Susan Sontag's incandescent Illness as Metaphor, published in 1978, broke the taboo on discussing the disease, using her own diagnosis as fuel for a furious treatise on how we think about illness and the body. And in 1997, the British journalists Ruth Picardie and John Diamond documented their respective struggles with breast and throat cancer in national newspaper columns. Like these predecessors and descendants, Mandel's posts chart an intelligent individual's battle with pain, semi-comprehensible encounters with medics and a rapidly diminishing life expectancy. What makes @heaven unique, though, is that it also documents the responses of a community in some way generated by his illness. What is the motivation for doing your dying in public? For Mandel, it was a desire to leave something of himself behind in cyberspace. In a new thread, entitled \"My Turn\", he said his formal goodbyes to the people who had sustained and engaged him, most of whom he'd never met in real life. \"If I could reach out and touch everyone I knew online,\" he wrote, \"I could toss out bits and pieces of my virtual self and the memes that make up Tom Mandel, and then when my body died, I wouldn't really have to leave \u2026 large chunks of me would also be here, part of this new space. Not an original idea, but what the hell, worth a try.\" Statements like this captivated Hastreiter, whose central agenda here is to present the internet as a place where social bonds are formed, not worn away. (Though she presents herself here as a digital neophyte, that is not quite the case: Paper's \"Break the Internet\" issue, featuring the cover image of Kim Kardashian balancing a champagne glass on her shapely rear, went viral last year.) \"Looking back,\" she writes in her introduction, \"I realise now that I watched history happen in the ether through a community of pioneers who were planting the seeds for what social networking would become \u2026 The strongest pillar of this amazing place called the internet is community.\" This sounds a little sentimental, but to complicate matters, Mandel is not, at least initially, a very likable figure. In fact, a quick dip into other sources suggests he was something of a proto-troll. An early adopter of the WELL, he was also one of its most voluble and aggressive participants. The willingness to \"flame\" opponents continued even as he was palpably softened by the process of illness. In response to one (here redacted) comment from a well-wisher, he wrote tetchily: \"you can shovel your self-aggrandising sentiments up you [sic] wide ass sideways for the duration as far as I'm concerned. We are definitely NOT in this together, except in the merest sense of belong to the same species.\" Charmless, yes, and yet scenes like this make the outpouring of goodwill from both sides more moving. Previous opponents are suddenly struck by how much Mandel's willingness to debate and engage has meant to them, while Mandel himself is repeatedly moved to express his heartfelt gratitude to the community that has permitted him so much pleasure. Somehow this shift is more encouraging than the suggestion that what happened on the WELL is an artefact of a more innocent age, before trolling became widespread. If @heaven does have a lesson, it is that building an online community doesn't require being paragons of virtue 24/7, but rather developing bonds of intimacy that can weather conflict and dissent \u2013 a task that is really no different whether you're communicating via a screen or standing eye to eye. \u2022 Olivia Laing's The Lonely City is forthcoming from Canongate. To order @heaven go to orbooks.com.",
  "title": "@heaven edited by Kim Hastreiter review \u2013 the story of an online death",
  "lead": "This intimate history of an early web community and a man's choice to die in public shows that the internet can be a place where real social bonds are formed",
  "tags": [
    "books/scienceandnature",
    "books/books",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "books/2015/jun/05/at-heaven-online-death-cybernetic-futurist-review-kim-hastreiter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}