{
  "content": "Naomi Campbell has managed to avoid another public court battle, this time over a story her former personal assistant sold to the News of the World. A high court judge in London today upheld an earlier decision to award the model a \"summary judgment\" - avoiding the need for a trial - for part of her breach of confidence damages claim against her former assistant, Vanessa Frisbee. The ruling means Campbell has escaped further revelations about her private life being splashed across the newspapers, after details of her fight against drug addiction were revealed in court last month during a case she brought against the Mirror. But the summary judgment relates only to the personal information Ms Frisbee admitted supplying to the newspaper. Other issues, including an alleged assault by Campbell and information she denied supplying, will be heard at a full hearing. In the News of the World article, Ms Frisbee claimed the Streatham-born model assaulted her for failing to come up with good enough excuses to cover an alleged secret affair between Campbell and Joseph Fiennes, star of Shakespeare in Love, while she lived with partner Flavio Briatore. It was alleged this was the culmination of a series of acts of unacceptable behaviour by Campbell. The newspaper paid Ms Frisbee \u00a325,000 for the story, which she sold through publicity agent Max Clifford. Campbell obtained a summary judgment last August on the basis that Ms Frisbee had no arguable defence to the model's claim that her disclosure of personal information to the News of the World was a breach of a confidentiality clause in her employment contract. But Ms Frisbee appealed, saying there was a public interest in the information she disclosed to the press.",
  "title": "Campbell wins privacy ruling",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "fashion/models",
    "media/press-freedom",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy",
    "fashion/naomi-campbell"
  ],
  "lead": " Naomi Campbell has managed to avoid another damaging court battle, this time over a story in the News of the World. By Julia Day",
  "id": "media/2002/mar/14/newsoftheworld.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}