{
  "content": "Thinking Digtal, part of the Gateshead Digital Summer, saw delegates pack into an The Sage yesterday for a programme which delivered everything from social journalism to 'walkcasts' - a soundtrack to suit walkers. It's the third year the city has hosted the event which attracts attendees, not only from the UK, but also from across the globe with representatives from the US and the far east joining the crowd. Organiser Herb Kim paid tribute to the enthusiastic community which supported the events: \"It's the contribution of your attention, energy, creativity and passion that elevates our gathering from a conference to a 'happening'. \" More than ever, Thinking Digital is less about our superstar speakers and performers and more about the audience and community we build around Thinking Digital.\" Below are my three personal top picks from a packed day \u2013 if you were at the conference, please do feel free to share links to your favourite items via the comments below. * One of the first speakers of the day was photojournalist Christian Payne, who blogs as Our Man Inside but is probably best-known for his Twitter persona @documentally. He entertained the audience with stories from his own personal experience as a backpack journalist who first turned to social media platforms because he couldn't find anyone to publish his pictures from Iraq and Pakistan. And he showed how the kit needed for the activity had drastically changed over the years from a whole host of cameras to the current day when a smart phone and miifi lightened the load. As @documentally on Twitter, Payne has built up a following of more than 13,000 and publishes his material on the the photo sharing platform Flickr as well as selling pictures to news organisations. \"It wasn't until I started using Flickr that I started making money for my pictures\" he joked, \"now once a month I search for my images, find out where they exist and send out invoices to people who've just taken them.\" * Image rights were also brought into focus by a later speaker. CEO of Creative Commons Joi Ito urged the audience to adopt a licensing system, not necessarily his, which would enable compatability across countries. Noting that Al Jazeera had become the first major media organisation to put content out under Creative Commons he said the profile exposure and the leads that move had prompted had already made it worthwhile to their business. * A change of pace from Andy Hobsbawm of DoTheGreenThing as he explained some of his company's initiatives to try to sell a green message by making it as chic as cycling in Copenhagen. This has included producing the first soundtrack for walking, which has the perfect number of beats per minute for the activity, and setting up a store to sell 'nothing\", as well as the short animation below which urges people to think again about the pleasures of walking. \" The environment issue is often seen as a life without. It can be a life with more - more happiness, friendship, its cleverer, smarter it can be a better way to be, not to impose a lifestyle on you, but because of things you get genuine reward from.\" Thinking Digital continues until May 27. The hashtag for the event is #tdc10.",
  "title": "Thinking Digital starts with mix of media, tech and ideas",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/blogging",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "The north east's best known digital media conference got underway with an eclectic mix of social media, music and strategic thinking",
  "id": "media/pda/2010/may/26/thinking-digital-gateshead-media-technology-ideas",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}