{
  "content": "Naomi Campbell's legal team today accused the Daily Mirror of using \"candid camera\" tactics when it published photographs of her outside a Narcotics Anonymous session. The model turned up in person to the hearing in the House of Lords today to listen to her lawyers argue that there was a breach of confidence which amounted to an invasion of her privacy when the Daily Mirror published a photograph and story about her receiving help at Narcotics Anonymous for drug addiction. Dressed in a pale turquoise trouser suit, Ms Campbell sat behind her legal team on a red leather upholstered chair in the ornate committee room overlooking the Thames as five law lords heard her case. Andrew Caldecott QC, who is leading her argument, quoted from previous cases which he claimed had established a development of the existing laws of confidence which amounted to \"a notion of privacy in a general sense\". Ms Campbell initially won her case against the newspaper in 2002, when the high court judge Mr Justice Morland ruled that publishing details of her treatment not only breached confidentiality but was also a breach of the Data Protection Act. But the court of appeal took a different view, overturning her \u00a33,500 damages award and ordering her to pay the Mirror's \u00a3350,000 legal costs. One of the key factors in the case was the finding in the high court that Ms Campbell had lied when she denied she was addicted to drugs. Three appeal judges headed by the Master of the Rolls, Lord Phillips, ruled in 2002 that publication of the details was in the public interest. The court ruled that the report and photographs were \"a legitimate, if not essential, part of... demonstrating that Ms Campbell had been deceiving the public when she said that she did not take drugs\". The law of confidence could not be used as a defence to prevent the record being put straight when a public figure told untruths, said the court. The Data Protection Act, which protects sensitive personal data, also had a public interest exemption, the appeal judges said. At today's Lords hearing, which is scheduled to last two days, Ms Campbell's lawyers were again trying to make a case that the publication constituted a breach of confidence or invaded her privacy. Attempts to establish a law of privacy began when the Human Rights Act came into force, guaranteeing a right of \"respect for private and family life\". Interest was fuelled during the marathon legal battle between Catherine Zeta Jones and husband Michael Douglas against Hello! magazine after it published unauthorised pictures of their private wedding in New York. Lord Justice Sedley stated during a ruling at an early stage of the litigation: \"It can be said with confidence that the law recognises and will appropriately protect, a right of personal privacy\". When the case was finally decided, the Douglases won a ruling that there had been a breach of confidence, not an invasion of privacy. Since that case, the civil courts have taken great pains not to give any hope that a privacy law existed or could be developed from existing statutes. Any successes achieved have been through the law of confidentiality, which seeks to protect ideas and actions communicated in confidence. Today's argument was eagerly awaited by lawyers and celebrities as the final clarification of how far the media can claim justification for publishing private details through public interest. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Lawyers argue Campbell privacy case",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "fashion/naomi-campbell"
  ],
  "lead": "12.30pm update:  Naomi Campbell's legal team today accused the Daily Mirror of 'candid camera' tactics when it published photographs of her outside a Narcotics Anonymous session. By Claire Cozens  and agencies.",
  "id": "media/2004/feb/18/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}