{
  "content": "7.39am: There's lots to catch up on: more possible cyber attacks; a whole weekend of WikiLeaks news; the launch of a new whistleblowing site today; the build-up to Julian Assange's next court appearance tomorrow; plus all the latest leaked cables. Gawker and Amazon have become the latest to experience problems after being threatened with cyber attacks from Anonymous. At this stage it is unclear if the problems are related to the threatened DDoS attacks. Greg Mitchell for the Nation has spent the last 14 days live blogging WikiLeaks. He's taking a well-earned nap now but his weekend edition is the place to go to catch up on events in the last 48 hours. Hats off to Greg for picking out these various weekend highlights: \u2022 David Frost saying \"hello and welcome\" to Julian Assange's lawyer Mark Stephens \u2022 Donald Rumsfeld taking to Facebook, of all places, to complain about WikiLeaks \u2022 More WikiLeaks video tribute songs, computer games, and ABC's 12 leaks of Christmas There was also a lively and star-studded symposium on WikiLeaks in New York on Saturday. You can catch video of the whole of the Personal Democracy Forum conference (#pdfleaks) here and here. For the best bits scroll forward 20 minutes in the first session and watch until about about 50 minutes in. That section includes contributions from the academics Jay Rosen and Jeff Jarvis, and Carne Ross the Foreign Office whistleblower who resigned after speaking out about the Iraq. Jarvis said the WikiLeaks furore exposed the need for a seven-point cyberspace bill of rights. Other weekend highlights include: \u2022 A typically thorough round-up of blog reaction to the WikiLeaks disclosures in various around the world from Global Voices. \u2022 Henry Porter's excellent analysis in the Observer of what the leaked cables have exposed - \"a snapshot of the world as it is, rather than the edited account agreed upon by diverse elites, whose only common interest is the maintenance of their power and our ignorance\". \u2022 Washington's Vatican embassy revealed dire fears about Anglo-Catholic relations in the wake of the Pope's offer to disaffected Anglicans. Meanwhile, today's disclosures concern Northern Ireland and the \"stans\". Here are the headlines: \u2022 IRA used Irish boom to turn 'respectable' \u2022 WikiLeaks cable describes legacy of distrust left by Finucane killing \u2022 Sinn F\u00e9in leaders 'were aware of' Northern Bank heist plans \u2022 Cable sticks the knife into Azerbaijan's first lady \u2022 UK banker nemed as middleman in Kazakh corruption ring \u2022 US public-private conflict over Uzbekistan \u2022 Cables paint bleak picture of Tajikistan, central Asia's poorest state You can follow all the previous disclosures and reaction on our other live blogs about the cables. And for full coverage go to our US embassy cables page or follow our US embassy cable Twitter feed @GdnCables. And please keep sending us your You Ask:We Search suggestions. Simply tweet @GdnCables with the information you're interested in. We're working with a search engine, remember, so it would help greatly if you could give us: \u2022 Search terms \u2022 Rough dates (the main archive runs from 2005 to Feb 2010) \u2022 The likely embassy involved ( eg 'Moscow', or 'Kampala') So you might say @gdncables Oil Spills June 2003 Angola. Our resources aren't infinite - but we'll do our best, so please be a little patient! 8.59am: The lionisation of Julian Assange goes on. The Sydney Morning Herald compared him to the outlaw Ned Kelly; Henry Porter likened him to the English radical John Wilkes; and for virtual reality pioneer Mark Pesce he is the Che Guevara of the network generation. In an article for the Australian broadcaster ABC, Pesce writes; Script kiddies everywhere now have a role model. Like it or not, they will create these systems, they will share what they've learned, they will build the apparatus that makes the state as we have known it increasingly ineffectual and irrelevant. Nothing can be done about that. This has already happened. We face a choice. This is the fork, in both the old and new senses of the word. The culture we grew up with has suddenly shown its age, its incapacity, its inflexibility. That's scary, because there is nothing yet to replace it. That job is left to us. We can see what has broken, and how it should be fixed. We can build new systems of human relations which depend not on secrecy but on connectivity. We can share knowledge to develop the blueprint for our hyperconnected, hyper-empowered future. A week ago such an act would have been bootless utopianism. Now it's just facing facts. 9.10am: Amazon has denied that an Anonymous hackers took down its European sites last night. In a statement to Bloomberg, Amazon spokeswoman Mary Osako said: The brief interruption to our European retail sites earlier today was due to hardware failure in our European data center network and not the result of a DDOS attempt. 9.27am: More on Gawker's login problems, and the hackers claiming responsibility, from our technology editor Charles Arthur. Gawker is suspected to have been targeted because it was dismissive about the online forum 4Chan, whose group is the source of many people involved in the Anonymous group, which has been aiming in the past week at companies reckoned to have failed to support Wikileaks. 9.32am: A WikiLeaks inspired site has been set up to blow the whistle on secret European Union documents. Brussels Leaks told the European Journalism Centre that it is planning to release secret documents on the transport and energy sectors. Spy blog looks at some of the other spin-off leak sites, including OpenLeaks. 9.44am: There's been a sacking over the publication of those hoax leaked cables in Pakistan, according to the Hindu. It reports: Siddique Sajid, editor of Pakistan's Online news agency, has been sacked after it published a fake WikiLeaks-based report that New Delhi allegedly played a role in destabilising the country's Balochistan province. 9.49am: Sinn F\u00e9in President Gerry Adams said the disclosure of MI5's files on the Finucane murder should be released. But speaking to PA, Adams also denied claims in the latest cables that he had advance knowledge of the Northern Bank raid. Adams said the claims were made publicly by the then Irish premier and Fianna Fail leader Bertie Ahern, and were denied by republicans at the time. I repudiated it then, as did Martin [McGuiness] It isn't true. I then spoke to the Taoiseach privately about this matter. It was my conviction at the time, because there was very intense, as there is now, electoral rivalry between Sinn Fein and Fianna Fail. I saw this and still see this as part of Fianna Fail's attack on or fight back against Sinn Fein at that time. I worked very closely with, and indeed still work very closely with, American ambassadors and the US president at the time, vice president and other members of the administration going back 15 years or so. They never raised this with me. 10.33am: More pro-WikiLeaks rallies are due to take place this week. WikiLeaks Central has all the details. They include a demo outside the Swedish embassy in London which is planned for 2pm today. 10.59am: More on the reaction of Gerry Adams to the latest cables, from my colleague Nick Watt. \"The assertion that MI5 were prepared to disclose files on Pat Finucane is a more pertinent story,\" Adams told BBC Radio's Good Morning Ulster as he dismissed separate claims in the US embassy cables about his alleged links with the IRA. \"I do not speak for the family but if there is any credibility in the report from the MI5 chiefs that they are prepared to disclose files this is proof that they have files and those files should of course be disclosed, as the family have been campaigning for a long time.\" 11.09am: After a late surge the term 'WikiLeaks' has become the most search for news term on The Guardian's site in 2010. It has just pipped 'immigration' and 'Facebook' to the top slot, writes Martin Belam. We only saw 283 searches for WikiLeaks in the first three months of the year, compared to nearly 34,000 in the last couple of weeks alone. In fact, it is only in the last couple of days that the total search volume has been enough to push it to the top and narrowly overtake 'immigration'. [This blogpost was amended on 15 December 2010. The paragraph above originally said that WikiLeaks was the most searched for overall word on guardian.co.uk. This has been corrected] 12.16pm: This might excite conspiracy theorists. All the Guardian staff have just been ordered out of the building in a fire drill. But we're back now. Apologies for the lack of blogging activity. While I was standing in the cold, Downing Street revealed that Whitehall has been briefed on steps to take against hacktivists. A spokesman said: \"My understanding is that the National Security Adviser [Sir Peter Ricketts] has spoken to permanent secretaries about the security of government websites. \"Obviously the priority there would be websites where we are dealing with information that belongs to members of the public.\" 12.36pm: Assange's next court appearance is expected to take place tomorrow at around 2pm, at City of Westminister magistrates. The Independent's Ben Chu profiles Assange's new barrister Geoffrey Robertson. The real significance of Robertson's involvement only occurred to Chu after he filed, he admits in this blog post. Robertson might not be able to prevent the WikiLeaks founder being deported, yet it makes a lot of sense for Assange to have him involved. Causes that Robertson supports (and Assange feels that he is being persecuted for championing open government) tend to prevail in the end. 12.56pm: For the last fortnight world leaders have been trying to have it both ways on WikiLeaks. On the one hand they have condemned the leaks as highly damaging; on the other they have claimed they will have no impact on policies and contain nothing new. This is exactly the line trotted out by NATO secretary general Anders Rasmussen in a new interview for Euronews. He said: These cables are not 'breaking news'. We do not comment on classified documents as a matter of policy but, in general, I can tell you they will not have any impact on our policies. Later he added: I do believe WikiLeaks action is damaging for international diplomacy, because international diplomacy is also about having confidential talks with other countries \u2013 even with adversaries \u2013 with a view to achieving peaceful solutions to conflicts, and if there is a risk that confidential talks will be made public, then this channel will be destroyed or damaged and this is, of course, the reason why we condemn this action. 1.07pm: The battle between WikiLeaks, its hacking supporters, and corporate websites has been called a game. Now it has a scorecard. Netcraft has a table listing the various \"outage times\" on 27 websites involved in the skirmishes. It's updated every 15 minutes. 1.50pm: Apologies for briefly getting fooled by this fake tweet. One of the perils of live blogging this is that some of the reaction has been so extreme that you start to believe anything. Time to read some proper reporting instead: Charles Arthur has been investigating Anonymous: It's difficult - perhaps wrong - to call Anonymous a group. It is, but only in the loosest sense; it's more like a stampeding herd, not sure quite what it wants but certain that it's not going to put up with any obstacles, until it reaches an obstacle it can't hurdle, in which case it moves on to something else. 2.03pm: This is not going to happen in the UK, but editors in Australia have signed a letter in support of WikiLeaks and Julian Assange. Here's how it starts and ends: The leaking of 250,000 confidential American diplomatic cables is the most astonishing leak of official information in recent history, and its full implications are yet to emerge. But some things are clear. In essence, WikiLeaks, an organisation that aims to expose official secrets, is doing what the media have always done: bringing to light material that governments would prefer to keep secret... It is the media's duty to responsibly report such material if it comes into their possession. To aggressively attempt to shut WikiLeaks down, to threaten to prosecute those who publish official leaks, and to pressure companies to cease doing commercial business with WikiLeaks, is a serious threat to democracy, which relies on a free and fearless press. 2.13pm: In his interview with David Frost, Mark Stephens said he had credible reports that a secret grand jury has been set up in America to consider criminal charges against Julian Assange. \"We have heard from Swedish authorities there has been a secretly empaneled grand jury in Alexandria [Virginia] ... They are currently investigating this,\" Assange's lawyer said. He claimed that that Swedish sex assault allegations against Assange were being used as \"holding charge\" before the Americans can get their \"mitts on him\". Salon's Glenn Greenwald tweets that if this is true, it would \"constitute a far greater threat to press freedom than anything Bush did\". 2.52pm: The cover of the Australian edition of the Spectator, gives an idea of how Julian Assange is viewed in the country of his birth. 3.13pm: Daniel Domsheit-Berg, the founder of the rival whistleblowing site OpenLeaks, says the lesson of WikiLeaks is that power corrupts, suggesting that too much power was vested in one individual. Speaking to BBC Radio he claimed OpenLeaks has been \"drowning in contact requests\". 3.32pm: More on the hack against Gawker. The Atlantic's senior editor Alexis Madrigal says its the worst cyber attack against a media organisation that he can remember against a media organisation. \"The breach was truly huge,\" claims the New York Observer. ZDNet is troubled by the implications: If a site\u2014media, government, e-commerce or otherwise\u2014is on the end of a cause you disagree with a denial-of-service attack (or any other attack) cannot be ruled out. At this rate, every site is going to be attacked. Gawker serves as a cautionary tale to button up your security procedures pronto. This hack-to-make-a-point approach is likely to pick up steam. 3.59pm: I had hoped to give you an update on the You Ask: We Search exercise. A progress report has been written, I'm told. But the lawyers have one or two issues with it. We'll post it as soon as we can. (That's it from me for now. There'll be more tomorrow on Assange's court appearance. Thanks for your comments).",
  "title": "WikiLeaks US embassy cables: live updates",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/wikileaks",
    "uk/northernireland",
    "technology/hacking",
    "media/julian-assange",
    "us-news/us-foreign-policy",
    "world/world",
    "technology/amazon",
    "us-news/the-us-embassy-cables"
  ],
  "lead": "Follow the latest reaction and fallout as the latest cables reveal that MI5 offered to hand over files on the murder of the Northern Ireland civil rights lawyer Pat Finucane",
  "id": "news/blog/2010/dec/13/wikileaks-us-embassy-cables-live-updates",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}