{
  "content": "The \"internet election\" has started, according to a wide variety of reliable sources, many of them not on the internet. But what is an \"internet election\" and how do you know if you are experiencing one? So far the symptoms are as follows: multiple Twitter feeds and Facebook profiles becoming clogged with candidates and agents, the massive increase in the use of the phrase \"internet election\" on mainstream media outlets, and breathily urgent emails from David Cameron seeking to share his innermost thoughts. (It is a shame he didn't do more of this when he was a TV company PR, when some of us even sought out his personal insights, usually to no avail). Research groups have decamped from front rooms in Dorking to the messageboards of parenting websites. But this is not an \"internet election\". It is yet another broadcast election; this time with the internet thrown in as a bonus bandwidth-free conduit. The un-internetted nature of modern politics was amply demonstrated by the passage of the digital economy bill last week in parliament, where an informed, vocal group that has both knowledge of and passion about the internet was ignored by a process and an institution that apparently have neither. For many it was their first encounter with \"live\" law-making; the empty chamber benches followed by the rush of MPs with apparently no prior interest in the bill crowding the lobby on a whipped vote. Online debate and activity was lively; lists of how MPs voted were quickly posted, as were wikis and blogs asking for suggestions on what to do next about the kangaroo act bouncing through parliamentary stages. Questions and answers buzzed back and forth: what was the real meaning of clauses that apparently restricted or blocked any sites linked to illegal filesharing? Who was vulnerable to having access denied by internet service providers should they be directed to choke internet supply? Would the outcome mean the end of free Wi-Fi in cafes, restaurants, libraries etc? What about privacy? Bloggers and commentators familiar with parliamentary procedure chided and guided the less experienced dissenters into more effective channels of action; how to pursue and amend faulty legislation, rather than simply complain about it. But the fact remained that the analogue political process had not been breached by all this web activity. The disconnect between using the internet increasingly as a platform for political messages, while ignoring the issues of genuine engagement, is unlikely to swing the election but will certainly infect the next parliament. The digital economy bill offers lessons in how alternative media and the internet could eventually combine to organise and puncture traditional democratic process on single issues. This time those with the most lobbying power \u2013 the music and film industries \u2013 won. However, campaigners on issues that have greater perceived importance to more people, such as taxation, fuel pricing, war and healthcare, could use these methods with more effect. The Obama campaign is often held up as a model of \"internet politics\" in action. But while the web was expertly exploited by it as a tool for fundraising and organisation, since the election there has been a lack of insight into how to deal with the genie in all its forms once released from the bottle. Hence the deep disappointment of supporters who felt included by the campaign but ignored by the government. The digital economy bill showed how far we are from having an internet-centric political system, and for all the apparent enthusiasm of shiny-faced candidates with their new Twitter feeds, many of them would prefer it stayed that way.",
  "title": "The election may have moved to the internet but politics hasn't",
  "lead": "The passage of the digital economy bill demonstrates politicians' lack of understanding | Emily Bell",
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/digital-economy-act",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/organgrinder/2010/apr/12/internet-election-emily-bell",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}