{
  "content": "With all this power, it's a challenge to know where to start. We are constantly reminded, for example, of society's preoccupation with being considered glamorous, accompanied by a belief that age brings us crashing down. Under my rule, everyone under 30 would be required by law to have one of their best selfies turned into an age-enhanced photo, wrinkles and all. It would be automatically established as an immovable Facebook and Twitter profile picture for the duration of my reign. Our youth-obsessed culture doesn't much value the old. This would focus young people's minds and make them realise that time catches up with all of us. With brains sharpened by fear of creeping mortality, I would implement a one-day change in education policy. Morning lessons would be cancelled, replaced by an intensive course in the fundamentals of running a business. At lunchtime, students and their extended families would be driven to farms, factories and local centres of industry and \u2013 over pickle sandwiches and tea \u2013 learn about where their food, clothes and other essentials come from, and about the people who do the toil. In the afternoon, each child would be required to do a few hours' work experience at a randomly selected local business. At 5pm, it would be back to school for an hour, and each kid would be required to come up with an idea for a business. (I would have already introduced a policy where everyone in the public eye had to put a day's earnings into a big pot, from which each child would be given \u00a3100 to develop their idea.) Any young person who lacked the ambition, or refused to cooperate, would find themselves deprived of social media for a year. One would not be too prescriptive about how these budding entrepreneurs chose to pursue success. Very early in my career in freight logistics, I decided that rather than dressing down, in some half-baked effort to deflect attention from my incongruity as a woman in a haulage yard, I would instead emphasise my femininity through my clothes. I played the system for all it was worth. They might do things differently. But this day of business education would have kids thinking about the future rather than worrying about hashtags and Instagram. And I'd reverse the smoking ban. I think it's bloody ridiculous.",
  "title": "If I were queen for a day I would enforce old-age selfies for children | Hilary Devey",
  "lead": "Hilary Devey: Under my brief reign, our youth-obsessed culture would pass its sell-by date \u2013 and education policy would wise up",
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/instagram",
    "education/education",
    "education/schools",
    "education/primary-schools",
    "education/secondary-schools",
    "money/work-and-careers"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/dec/05/queen-for-a-day-hilary-devey",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}