{
  "content": "Social media data is of great value for researchers wishing to understand how people use platforms such as Twitter to react during events such as the August riots. However, the sheer volume generated by social media users \u2013 in this case 2.6m tweets \u2013 makes it difficult to analyse using conventional methods. The methodology we chose combines techniques that make use of computer-based tools to explore and structure the data \u2013 and so identify potentially interesting sets of tweets \u2013 with more established methods for media analysis. In this way we were able to make the most effective use of the human expertise that is essential to understanding the content. First we divided the tweets into originals and \"retweets\", where people share a tweet with their followers. We focused our analysis on retweets because a retweet is the best available evidence that a tweet has actually been read. We then used computer-based tools to group a tweet and its retweets together and by ranking these were able to establish the relative importance of each one. We built a database and set of digital tools and used them to identify and extract tweets and their retweets whose content matched certain criteria \u2013 for example, rumours that rioters had set fire to the London Eye or had released animals from London Zoo. Comparing the results of different combinations of search terms (hashtags are useful but are not sufficient by themselves) enabled us to identify false positives and to check for missing \u2013 but relevant \u2013 tweets. We also ranked Twitter users by the number of tweets they sent, the number of mentions they received and their follower count. Then we used volunteers to put tweets into different categories \u2013 for example, reports about events, comments about reports, requests for information. The source of a frequently retweeted tweet was of particular interest for understanding how Twitter users react to rumours. To help with this analysis we identified 20 different kinds of Twitter accounts \u2013 including mainstream media, non-mainstream media, non-media, bloggers, activists, UK Twitterati and the police \u2013 and used these to categorise accounts with more than 500 mentions. Finally, we used \"sentiment analysis\" tools to help gauge the opinions of Twitter users about specific events. To test the reliability of this analysis, we asked volunteers to code a subset of the tweets and compared the results. \u2022 Prof Rob Procter, director of the Manchester eResearch Centre at the University of Manchester, led the multidisciplinary research team that has been analysing the tweets about the riots. The team members are Dr\u2009Farida Vis, Dr Alex Voss, Marta Cantijoch, Yana Manyukhina, Prof Mike Thelwall, Steven Gray, Dr Andy Hudson-Smith and Prof Rachel Gibson",
  "title": "How 2.6m tweets were analysed to understand reaction to the riots",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/london-riots",
    "technology/twitter",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "The sheer volume of tweets meant a variety of techniques and tools were needed to explore and structure the data",
  "id": "uk/2011/dec/07/how-tweets-analysed-understand-riots",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}