{
  "content": "After the recent uproar, the master of the rolls's report on superinjunctions is redundant. The press has played into the hands of those who argue superinjunctions are necessary. The simplistic arguments put forward by \"right-thinking\" members of the tabloid press show they have no concept of responsibility. The irony is that those who seek the right to publish information that they argue should be open do so under anonymity, or with the protection of parliamentary privilege. To understand what has happened, one has to look at the procedure involved. On the premise that an injunction is necessary (and we do not know the evidence put forward), arguments are put before the judge. An interim order is made. I must stress that the order is temporary. Safeguards are built in; appeals are possible; applications to set aside are possible; return dates to hear both sides of the case can happen. So far, so good \u2013 but then the order must be served on the last people you want to know about the underlying story. It is time to ask the lions in the Colosseum to look after the Christians. It is time to alert the press. Injunctions, rather than superinjunctions, are notified to all newspaper staff by editors and legal departments. Stories abound of damage to \"press freedom\". The freedom to wreck lives, the freedom to break injunctions, the freedom to destroy. Rights without responsibility. The argument goes that someone should determine whether the story is in the public interest, or whether it offends against the rights of privacy. Those people already exist: they are called judges. They hear the evidence, then apply the law. If they get it wrong, then procedures exist to challenge their decisions. Instead, individuals choose to break the law without knowledge of the facts. Arrogance based upon ignorance. Few people will know the full facts that led to the most high-profile recent injunction, and even fewer will care. Some who justify their actions say he is a footballer who earns too much. How much can he earn before he loses his right to privacy? How about his wife and children? Does anyone care about them? Another argument is that injunctions are a \"rich man's game\". It is only the very wealthy who seek and get them. Largely that is true, but it is also true that only the wealthy need them. When was the last time the tabloid press exposed the local garage mechanic for having an affair? If the player earned his living with his hands instead of his feet, the story would evaporate. This is not about press freedom; it is about press intrusion. The modern-day equivalent of peeking through someone's curtains \u2013 intrusive and unnecessary. The press obsession with celebrity masks matters that truly are in the public interest, such as healthcare and the environment \u2013 matters that should be discussed openly, and raised in parliament. It is often said that journalists don't let facts get in the way of a good story. Well defendants have rights too. Lawyers act for defendants opposing injunctions as well as for claimants seeking them. When the defendant is the press, it can and often does throw more money into the defence (now who's the rich man?) than the claimant, while pretending to be on the side of democracy. \"People fought and died for our right to be told a footballer was cheating on his wife.\" If we wish to justify these actions by resorting to prurience and setting standards of morality dictated by the holier-than-thou tabloid press, then we should be consistent. A roll of shame, perhaps? Let's start with journalists and editors. Let's know what goes on in their \"private lives\" (a phrase the tabloid press presumably argues no longer exists). Each case should be taken on its own merits. That is why lawyers talk about privacy on a case-by-case basis. There is a difference between a footballer who plays in a strip, and a politician who wears a strip while demonstrating hypocrisy if he espouses family values publicly. The former should be private; in the latter, the hypocrisy should be exposed \u2013 but not the salacious details. Are we really entitled to beckon others over to peer through the bedroom curtains? Access to justice underpins the rule of law in a democratic state. In order to try matters before the courts, it is essential that all parties can afford legal representation. But the tabloid press has campaigned for the abolition of \"no win, no fee\" agreements. The very funding that allows challenges to the dominant position of the press will be lost. Cheap lawyer jokes will not be replaced with cheap lawyers, but with no lawyers. Then the law will only be for the rich.",
  "title": "Injunctions: 'press freedom' means lives destroyed",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "media/media",
    "law/superinjunctions",
    "law/injunctions",
    "law/law",
    "law/mark-lewis"
  ],
  "lead": "Mark Lewis: Individuals break the law without knowledge of the facts \u2013 arrogance based upon ignorance",
  "id": "media/organgrinder/2011/may/30/injunctions-press-freedom-lives-destroyed",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}