{
  "content": "Ten million of us in the UK have never used the internet. Try to picture it: it's the equivalent of the entire populations of our five biggest cities combined - London, Birmingham, Leeds, Glasgow and Sheffield - all being left without the tool that we now heavily rely on every day. Four million of those who are offline are society's most disadvantaged: 39% are over 65.38% are unemployed - 19% are adults in families with children. Think about what that means. Thanks to technology's near-ubiquity and our close to universal use of it, we now live in a world defined by constant communication \u2013 40m adults in the UK use the web, and 30 million of us do so daily. \u2022 Worldwide, we send 55m tweets via Twitter a day. In the UK alone, 25m of us are on Facebook. 16m people watch TV or listen to the radio via the web. Millions of us now use sites like Meetup.com to get together offline in our local communities. \u2022 3.1m over-65s go more than a week without seeing a friend, family or neighbour and half of all internet users say the web increases contact with friends who live further away. Yet 6.4m over-65s have never used the internet, with 63% of them saying they 'see no reason' to get online. 21st century leisure and social interaction \u2013 on and offline - increasingly rests on technology and it can be a powerful tool in combating social isolation in our ageing population. \u2022 90% of new jobs require computer skills. Seven million job adverts were placed online in the UK last year. Without web skills you're increasingly cut off from the labour market. Yet 270,000 of the 1.5m people claiming Jobseekers Allowance of \u00a30.8bn a year are without these basic skills. There is a wage premium for those with web skills, digital literacy is increasingly a basic requirement for employability, and internet access can unleash enterprise by letting people launch small businesses. \u2022 58% of us buy goods and services online in the UK and the average household saves \u00a3560 a year by shopping and paying bills online. To give over-65s the same amount that the average household saves from shopping and paying bills online via the State Pension would cost Government \u00a36bn a year. Remaining offline carries a penalty. Only 14% of people cite cost as a reason they don't get online and 41% of those completing a foundation computer course go on to get home access once the considerable benefits of online interaction becomes clear. For reasons of social justice and economic necessity, we must act now. In spite of the many benefits in getting online, 59% of non-internet users attribute their failure to go online to a lack of motivation, rising to 63% of those 65-74 and over. Which is why we are calling on organisations in every sector and in every corner of the UK to join us to try to forge a stronger, networked UK in which millions more of us are online by the end of the Olympic year. We are asking them to make pledges to inspire people to try the net, to encourage and reward people for going online, and to support those groups that might need a helping hand because they lack the skills, financial resource or because of disability. We are calling on industry to advertise the benefits of connectivity rather than broadband speeds, to come up with compelling incentives and affordable, entry-level broadband starter packs, and for Government to play a key role in nudging the final 10million of us to go online by thinking internet first when it delivers public services. Nine out of ten people who are offline know someone who is online \u2013 we just need to join up our skills so that if a fraction of those 40m people got out there and passed them on to a friend or family member, we would we forge a very much stronger networked UK by the Olympic year. Make your pledge here. raceonline2012 In June, Martha Lane Fox was appointed by The Prime Minister as the UK Digital Champion. She co-founded lastminute.com and the private karaoke chain Lucky Voice. In 2007, she launched Antigone, a grant-giving foundation that supports education, health and criminal justice charities to reflect her commitment to social justice. She is non-executive director at Marks &amp; Spencer plc, Channel 4 Television and Mydeco Simon Rogers adds: These are the key datasets - we've visualised some above using Many Eyes. What can you do with the rest? Download the data \u2022 DATA: download the full datasheet World government data \u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway Can you do something with this data? Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk \u2022 Get the A-Z of data \u2022 More at the Datastore directory \u2022 Follow us on Twitter",
  "title": "Martha Lane Fox introduces the data which shows the digital divide",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/martha-lane-fox",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "society/poverty",
    "society/society",
    "technology/digital-britain",
    "society/socialexclusion"
  ],
  "lead": "Millions of us have no access to the internet. The UK's Digital Champion explains why that matters - and introduces the data that shows how",
  "id": "news/datablog/2010/jul/12/digital-divide-martha-lane-fox",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}