{
  "content": "My flabber is gasted. A paparazzi photographer who had the gall to write the above tweet, and then to go on to TV to condemn the publication of the pictures of the Duchess of Cambridge, once intruded into her privacy himself. Niraj Tanna, who refers to himself as a \"celebrated royal photographer\", told Sky News that it was against the public interest for Closer magazine to publish the photos. But the interviewer then questioned him about his sneaky picture-taking in 2009 when he snapped the then Kate Middleton while she was spending Christmas with Prince William in Cornwall. His response: he was standing on a public footpath in order to snap pictures of Middleton on a tennis court that was situated on Duchy of Cornwall land. Yes, she asked, but what was the public interest? Tanna offered this extraordinary justification. According to its website, the Duchy of Cornwall is a private estate specifically for members of the royal family. Therefore, because Middleton was a commoner at the time, it was in the public interest to reveal that she was there. I just can't believe he was being serious (and, incidentally, in a quick visit to the website, I can't find any reference to what he claims. Even if it does, the fact that she was invited by a member of the family negates his pathetic excuse). It is the thinnest of thin arguments to advance for intruding into someone's privacy. My former colleague, Stephen Brook, was looking after my blog in March 2010 when the photographic agency Rex Features, which was responsible for distributing Tanna's pictures, publicly apologised to Middleton and paid her damages for invading her privacy. No British outlet used the pictures, but Rex syndicated them overseas, where some were published. Tanna disagreed with the agency's statement, maintaining that he had not invaded Middleton's privacy.",
  "title": "Kate photos: Paparazzo accused of invading her privacy condemns publication",
  "lead": "Photographer says magazine's use of pictures not in public interest",
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/news-photography",
    "uk/duchess-of-cambridge",
    "uk/prince-william",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/sky-news",
    "law/law",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/magazines"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/greenslade/2012/sep/14/news-photography-duchess-of-cambridge",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}