{
  "content": "Even if you've never suspected your partner of infidelity, are you still tempted to search for their name in the leaked Ashley Madison profiles list? What about an ex, or even your colleague? Some 33 million records of people apparently seeking secret extramarital affairs have had their names and identifying details released online, and inevitably people are looking up who's there. The infidelity website, whose tagline is \"Life is short. Have an affair\", appears to have profiles with email addresses from government, the military and large well-known companies. More than 100 user accounts were registered with Ministry of Defence email addresses, and another 100-plus accounts were registered with emails ending in gov.uk, the general government domain. Although there are 1.2m profiles registered to UK addresses, Ashley Madison's lack of email verification means that some of the emails used may have been faked. The leak also appeared to demonstrate that the \"full delete\" service costing \u00a315 which would remove all their information, did not work comprehensively. The company appears to have retained date of birth, city, state, postcode, country and gender of its former customers, plus information about their relationship status, what they were open to sexually, and what they were looking for in a partner. Is it OK to look up our partners email addresses just in case? Is it similar to sneaking a quick glance at our spouse's inbox before the standby function kicks in? Or maybe it's the opportunity you've been waiting for to confirm or refute your worst fears? We want to know how people have been affected by the leak. If you've looked up your partner and found out they're on the list, we want to hear from you. Or if you're on the list, how has having your information leaked affected you? Share your experiences in the comments, or by filling out the form below. We'll use a selection of responses in a feature on the site.",
  "title": "Ashley Madison hack: should you look up your partner's details?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/ashley-madison",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/hackney",
    "technology/hacking"
  ],
  "lead": "Hackers have released the details of 33 million Ashley Madison profiles. People are now trying to decide whether to search for their spouses",
  "id": "technology/2015/aug/21/should-you-look-up-your-partners-details-in-the-leaked-ashley-madison-profile-list",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}