{
  "content": "Behind the headlines about Wikipedia replacing the second world war and vlogging ousting Queen Victoria, Sir Jim Rose's new plans for the primary school curriculum aren't all bad. Indeed, if delivered intelligently, they might even begin to chip away at the nefarious \"Hitler and the Henries\" approach to history teaching in the classroom. Of course, the mature-in-years Rose has been well and truly had by the Hoxton-finned IT brigade when it comes to courses on blogging and podcasts. School should be about learning and understanding, not delivering the endlessly shifting networking and social skills set which is easily picked up outside the school gates. Indeed, by the time the Twitter sub-committee has finalised its memorandum on \"communication and technological understanding\" today's technology fads will have gone the way of CD-Roms and Betamax. More important is what happens to history. Rightly, Rose is stripping away the endless tier of regulations and stipulations that the Department for Children, Schools and Families \u2013 the last, great centralising Whitehall Lubyanka \u2013 has imposed on teachers, for a slimmed-down curriculum of six core \"learning areas\". Depressingly, I think history falls under something entitled \"human, social and environmental understanding\" (can you believe it?). And what Rose wants is for schools to focus on two key periods of British history \u2013 but it would be up to teachers to decide which. If this means the end of the second world war for under-11s, then so be it. In fact, it's a good thing. For the 1940s is the one area of history that suffuses our public understanding of the past: on the radio, in newspapers, on television and film and at pretty much every major museum, the second world war is well and truly covered. More than that, at Key Stage 3 (11-14), then GCSE, and then AS- and A-level, the Reichstag fire, the rise of Hitler, the Nazi-Soviet pact and the D-Day invasion is pretty much all the history school kids learn. About 80% of A-level students study the Nazis. As a result, as a recent Ofsted report made plain, we have completely lost sight of the 18th century as a topic of teaching \u2013 not to mention the wars of the roses, the English civil war and the history of empire. Letting go of the second world war \u2013 even saying goodbye to Queen Victoria \u2013 could prove a liberation. What primary school history needs to do is excite some passion about the past. Often that might involve beginning with local history and projects unpicking the particularities of place. Or perhaps genealogical history. Or just the wonder of the Egyptians, the Romans or the Vikings. Part of the great appeal of history has always been its element of escapism and romantic detachment. Now it will be up to local teachers, drawing on the personal enthusiasms and community histories of individual classes, to decide what is best. After the carrot comes the stick. For one of the strengths of Rose's report is also to demand in clear and uncertain terms the reintroduction of chronology. Depressingly, if inevitably, the National Union of Teachers has decried the chronological teaching of history as the product of \"political pressure\". But history is about change over time and without an appreciation of development and progression (as well as reversal), the study of the past simply becomes an entry point into various free-floating wonderlands: you jump from Henry VIII to Hitler to Mary Seacole to Stalin with little sense of the shape of preceding centuries. What the Labour MP and former editor of History Today, Gordon Marsden famously termed the '\"Yo Sushi!\" experience of historical understanding \u2013 with students gobbling up titbits as they come round on the module conveyor belt but able to make little connection to the broader picture once the dishes have done the rounds. Chronology is certainly a big ask for many primary school pupils and it will take a lot of wall charts and parental help to embed the thinking. But it is worth it. However, none of this will be worth a jot if history is not given more space within the curriculum. The great tragedy of our contemporary approach to the past is that both inside and outside the classroom the place of history is being whittled away. A typical 13-year-old pupil is likely to be taught history for just an hour a week; some 35 hours a year. And the worry about Rose's report is that between his tutorials on Twitter and workshops on Wikipedia, history might have even less leverage.",
  "title": "Tristram Hunt: Forget the chatter about Twitter, plans for primary schools may inspire a passion for history",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "education/primary-schools",
    "education/schools",
    "education/education",
    "politics/education",
    "education/teaching",
    "education/primary-school-teaching-resources",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Tristram Hunt: Forget the chatter about Twitter, new plans for the primary school curriculum might just help to inspire passion about the past",
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/mar/25/primary-schools-curriculum",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}