{
  "content": "Last week's unexpected vote by the European Parliament to give sweeping powers to EU governments to monitor internet, phone and email traffic has angered civil liberties groups everywhere. It will allow governments to force phone and internet companies to keep detailed records of customers' web, phone and email usage for a long time. Civil libertarians in the UK had been expecting the parliament to reject \"data retention\" of this kind and then to use that decision to try to overturn the UK government's unilateral moves in that direction. This is because even before the European Parliament's vote, the Home Office was planning to introduce data retention under the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act (ATCS), passed hastily in December. Since February, the Home Office has been consulting on what the rules should be. For the beleaguered telecoms industry this is a new set of legal requirements and costs. For the rest of us, data retention could turn everyone's lives into an open book. \"Data\" means traffic data collected in the normal course of business by all communications service providers. For mobile phone companies, it includes call records and cell site data showing subscribers' movements throughout the country (and abroad, if they have roaming turned on). For internet service providers, it includes login/logout records, web caches, email headers, and internet numbers assigned and when. It does not include the contents of email messages or specific web addresses. Even without the contents, traffic data can be extremely revealing, showing a pattern of relationships and communications that allows the authorities to build a detailed picture of someone's life. Caspar Bowden, executive director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, says: \"Records from internet logs can be matched automatically with mobile phone location records and government databases to piece together a 'jigsaw' of the most intimate details of anyone's life.\" Bowden and FIPR are the reason web addresses are not classed as traffic data. They argued successfully during the passage of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act that these frequently contain sensitive information such as passwords. Mr Bowden points out that, although David Blunkett claims these powers will be used against terrorism and organised crime, the law allows that even a minor incident, such as joyriding near a military base, might be linked to terrorist activity. Further, although current thinking is that the laws will apply to businesses, as broadband spreads we could all be communications providers. Even now, individuals run anything from chat servers and file-sharing systems to websites, and they all create data. The argument is that September 11 changed everything. But as far back as April 2000, there were rumours that the security services wanted communications data retained for as long as five years. A document written by the National Crime Intelligence Service on behalf of GCHQ and other agencies confirmed this when it was leaked in December 2000. The laws that passed in the first post-September 11 shock are arguably the laws they wanted all along. One blockage against them was the European Parliament's commitment, reinforced in a vote in November 2001, to privacy. This is now gone. The code of practice for data retention under ATCS was due before the end of the current Parliamentary session. In the past few months there have been several drafts. Some require data retention for up to two years. Roland Perry, director of public policy for the London Internet Exchange (Linx), puts the overall cost to ISPs and telephone companies at roughly \u00a340m a year. That includes set-up costs and procurement (which one large ISP estimates at some \u00a3100,000), amortised costs and network redesign. It does not include subject right of access under the data protection laws, nor agency access requests. Europe's decision changes one big fear: that the upshot would be to impose costs on UK communications providers that didn't exist elsewhere. Even so, in a global market businesses may well choose to relocate outside the surveillance zone. Under the toughened 1998 data protection laws, data is to be retained only if, and as long as, it is required for business purposes - billing, for example. Exemptions are granted if there is a legal requirement. It is similar in Europe but the European Parliament's decision overturns this part of the 1997 EU directive on privacy of telecommunications, on which our 1998 data protection laws are based. Member states are now allowed to bring in legislation to mandate data retention and law enforcement access. Under ATCS the code of practice is voluntary (with a provision to make it mandatory if after review it is necessary). So is it a requirement? David Evans, compliance manager in the information commissioner's office, says: \"The Home Office seems to think it's compliant and compatible; we have doubts.\" The Home Office says it believes \"the code works within the framework set within the Data Protection Act.\" Ian Walden, a consultant at Baker and Mackenzie, says he thinks the government has a case. \"It's only voluntary to the extent there is no penalty. But it is a statutory code of practice.\" The weakening of the European Convention on Human Rights may help the Home Office's case. The key question, which no one can answer, is whether retaining the data will actually keep us safer. \"Personally, I think this is a disproportionate response,\" says Walden. \"If they thought it was worthwhile before, then it should have appeared in [the Cybercrime convention]. I don't think law enforcement will know what to do with all this data.\"",
  "title": "A new blow to our privacy",
  "lead": "Phone and internet data must now be retained longer.  Wendy Grossman  looks at what it means",
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2002/jun/06/onlinesupplement.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}