{
  "content": "Today's appeal court decision to overturn a \u00a31m damages award against Hello! magazine leaves media organisations with no protection against spoilers, legal experts have warned. Media lawyer Mark Stephens said the court's decision to reverse a ruling that Hello! should pay rival OK! more than \u00a31m in damages for publishing paparazzi pictures of the wedding of Catherine Zeta Jones and Michael Douglas represented a \"huge own goal\" for the celebrity magazine. \"They rely as much as OK! does on exclusives and scoops to attract readers,\" said Mr Stephens. \"A decision like this can only be bad for Hello!, a magazine that is already in decline. \"The reason we have a vibrant media in this country is the scoops and exclusives and what the court doesn't seem to have addressed is the impact of this decision on the media. \"Scoops are the lifeblood of a vibrant media and the court of appeal has effectively removed the ability of news organisations to keep the vibrancy of the media alive with scoops - and that is of real concern in this judgment.\" The appeal court recognised that the Douglases had a right of privacy in the details of their wedding that were not portrayed by the official photographs taken by OK!. It said that the injunction obtained by the couple and OK! temporarily preventing publication of the unauthorised wedding photographs in Hello! should not have been lifted. But the court ruled that the publisher of OK! had no such rights and overturned the decision to award it more than \u00a31m in damages. \"These photographs [unauthorised] invaded the area of privacy which the Douglases had chosen to retain. It was the Douglases, not OK!, who had the right to protect this area of privacy or confidentiality,\" said Lord Phillips. In a statement, the court of appeal said the judges considered that \"the purchase by OK! of the authorised photographs did not confer on OK! any legal right to prevent the publication by others of unauthorised photographs\". \"Had Hello! intended to cause OK!s loss of sales, they would have been liable to pay compensation but, on the evidence, they had only set out to boost their own sales, not to damage those of OK!,\" it added. OK! has said it will appeal the ruling in the House of Lords. Maninder Gill, the legal director of OK!'s publisher, Northern &amp; Shell, said the ruling meant celebrities were protected only if they already knew a publication was planning to run a spoiler. \"It is untrue to say there is no protection. It's not the wild west but the problem arises where an individual does not know a spoiler is about to run,\" he said. \"That is what media companies will be jumping up and down about. It exposes a massive hole in the law which could affect anyone who has paid for rights to an exclusive.\" Mr Gill admitted today's ruling could affect OK!, which recently did a deal to cover the impending wedding of Katie Price, aka Jordan, and Peter Andre. The magazine was reported at the weekend to have paid \u00a31.75m for the exclusive rights to cover the wedding, due to take place later this year at Fyvie Castle in Aberdeenshire, although the real figure is understood to be far lower. According to the reports, a team of former SAS soldiers has been hired to make sure no cameras are smuggled into the ceremony to spoil the exclusive deal. But Duncan Lamont of media law firm Charles Russell said today the law had never provided protection for the media against rivals that \"spoil\" their exclusives. \"That has always been the case, which is why the court of the appeal came to this decision. The real difficulty here is how can you determine whether a magazine did better or worse as a result of a spoiler. The court of appeal has taken the decision that if you have an exclusive the only way to keep it is to be first to print,\" he said. \"Spoiling spoilers is a restraint of the public's right to know. Underneath all this is what many people will regard as a very sensible decision and I don't think it will change the way newspapers and magazines do business.\" Lord Phillips, giving the ruling of the appeal court today, said the Douglases were entitled to claim that events at their wedding were private or confidential even though they had sold the rights to OK!. \"It is quite wrong to suppose that a person who authorises publication of selected personal photographs taken on a private occasion will not reasonably feel distress at the publication of unauthorised photographs taken on the same occasion,\" said the judge. But he said that when people authorise pictures to be taken on private occasions and made public, the potential for distress at the publication of unauthorised photographs was reduced and this should be reflected in the amount of damages award. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Hello! ruling is 'huge own goal', lawyers warn",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "2pm update: Today's decision  to overturn a \u00a31m damages award against Hello! leaves media organisations with no protection against spoilers, legal experts have warned. By Claire Cozens",
  "id": "media/2005/may/18/privacy.zetajonesvhello",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}