{
  "content": "Michael Howard was quite right. Prison works. It does for Angus Deayton, anyway. Now that he has obtained a legal injunction, including a penal notice warning that anyone who disobeys it could end up in the slammer, the vestiges of his private life should remain, for the duration of the order, private. Even campaigning journalists who passionately believe that Deayton is a national role model of such stature and moral influence that details of his extra-mural sexual encounters must be exposed, for the sake of our children, to the fullest inspection, now appear to be reluctant to risk imprisonment in this noble cause. The injunction, obtained by the role model last Saturday to prevent the Mail on Sunday unleashing new \"revelations\", that will \"shock even his closest friends\", specifically prevents the \"use, disclosure or communication of any information of, or relating to, Angus Deayton (directly or indirectly) about his health, medical history or condition\". A pity, then, that the order was not in place a couple of weeks earlier, when the Mail on Sunday gleefully produced a piece about Deayton and his partner, Lise Meyer, that included extensive, and to my mind, lamentably intrusive detail about their private life, including her medical history. He, the paper reported, was scared of losing his family. Still, it revealed, they were thinking of trying for another baby. Even though they had, it disclosed, endured considerable difficulty after becoming parents in their 40s following IVF treatment at the Hammersmith hospital. On the other hand, had the threat of prison been an option, at that point it seems unlikely Deayton's lawyers would have used it, as the person invading the Deayton household's privacy, \"in an exclusive interview with the Mail on Sunday\", was none other than Lise Meyer. On the same day, Deayton also obliged, in the Sunday Mirror, with \"Exclusive: Angus Deayton on the day his life fell apart\", and a resum\u00e9 of how he attempted to put it back together again. \"There have been tears every day,\" he said. \"Yes, mine too. That is the hideousness of this kind of trauma . . .\" Even though these confessions, which gave the story a new and vigorous lease of life, no doubt represented a concerted attempt to save Deayton's career rather than an endorsement of tabloid voyeurism, they did tend to diminish one's sympathy, which had until that point, been considerable. After all, the idea of Deayton as a role model is risible. His sexual adventures, though wretchedly grubby, are neither illegal nor, to judge by the rise of the executive lap-dancing club, all that unusual. The prospect of his discomfiture would, in the end, have palled. Had they kept quiet, Deayton and Meyer's silence could only have emphasised the cruelty of their tormentors. Instead, like so many public figures before him, including Princess Diana, Prince Charles and, more recently, the \"we do not seek injunctions lightly\" Blairs, Deayton seems to have believed that he could adjust the definition of public interest week by week, according to taste. In an interview published last weekend, one of Jeffrey Archer's more mature popsies proved unembarrassable on the subject of her intrigues and congress with the philanderer, then threatened to storm out if she was described - accurately - as a grandmother. Deayton has not been much more consistent: one day press curiosity would be indulged, even gently tickled, another it would be prohibited, by order of a judge, following an application heard in secret. In two weeks, the couple went from pained, but gossipy disclosure -\"Parenthood has been a very long, hard road and very stressful\" - to \"If you disobey this order you may be found guilty of contempt of court and you may be sent to prison or fined or your assets may be seized.\" Deayton is entitled to consider some areas of his life more inaccessible than others, but it is either remarkably naive or preposterously over-confident of Deayton or his PR to think that the press will submit to his idiosyncratic view of which areas should be roped off and which opened up to gawping trespassers. Prison works, but so, sometimes, does shutting up. Why I don't like Mondays Is it too late for accountancy firm PricewaterhouseCoopers to rethink its decision to rename itself Monday, a word it considers energetic and full of businesslike brio? The plan is not, as some have suggested, inherently absurd, for the literally unspeakable, multiple pile-up of PricewaterhouseCoopers cries out for replacement with something shorter and prettier. No, the difficulty is that the word is already taken, as I have already decided to use Monday as a replacement for wanker. Mindful of the impressionable young people who occasionally read this paper, yet reluctant to give up expletives or replace them with asterisks, my plan is to replace common insults with inoffensive, yet distinctively different terms in the same way that discredited brands attempt to purge themselves of tainted connotations. If PricewaterhouseCoopers will let me keep Monday, I will happily let them have wanker in exchange. Not only does the word sound a little more like a contraction of their existing company name, it encapsulates, with remarkable brevity, the kind of person who thinks that the word Monday conjures up \"fresh thinking, doughnuts and hot coffee\". Cherie's in a Bharti mood Heartwarming signs that the rift between Cherie Blair and her health and beauty adviser, Bharti Vyas, may have healed. Alternative health fans may remember that last year, after Mrs Blair was disagreeably surprised to find herself at the opening of a new Vyas salon and officiating at a full-scale PR event rather than the expected \"quiet family affair\", she sent Vyas a far from holistic letter, complaining about being \"used this way (not for the first time) to promote your business\". As a punishment, she planned to take a few weeks off from visiting the salon. Today, it appears, Vyas is again confident of Mrs Blair's custom, so much so that the \"Bharti's tips\" column in the Daily Express introduces her as a therapist \"whose clients include Cherie Blair, Cher and Mariah Carey . . .\" This week's tip, incidentally, concerned the cultivation of healthy skin. Did you know that \"if there's a build-up of dead cells, it hinders the skin from carrying out its normal function of excreting toxins\"? Well, now you do.",
  "title": "How could you be so naive, Angus?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy",
    "tv-and-radio/angus-deayton"
  ],
  "lead": "Like so many public figures before him, Angus Deayton seems to have believed that he could adjust the definition of public interest week by week, according to taste, says Catherine Bennett",
  "id": "media/2002/jun/13/privacy.comment",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}