{
  "content": "The decision not to grant the Beckhams an injunction preventing their former nanny telling her story in the News of the World has divided legal experts. Lawyers for celebrities and newspapers are still studying the implications for press freedom and privacy laws but most are shocked by the outcome. Their work is made more difficult by the fact no written judgment was made by Mr Justice Langley when he declared his decision to the News of the World's legal team by telephone on Saturday night. His pronouncement would fill only around one line of an A4 piece of paper if it had been written down, but the consequences of his decision to decline the injunction could be far reaching. The judge said the Beckhams had not satisfied him that it was more likely than not that they would succeed at an eventual trial of the case. Langley did not, and is not obliged to, provide reasons for his judgment - leaving media lawyers divided over the consequences for stars and the press. Jonathan Coad, a partner at the Simkins Partnership, said the Beckhams should appeal against the decision, not only for their own sake but for anyone in the public eye who employs staff in confidence. Mr Coad, who has successfully acted for the Beckhams in the past, said: \"It's a disastrous judgment. Every celebrity that employs a nanny or any kind of help is going to be thinking 'how can we trust anybody? How can we let them be part of our lives?'\" \"I'm sure the News of the World will say that the celebrities present themselves in a different way when in public.\" Mr Coad highlighted the case of Naomi Campbell and her personal assistant Vanessa Frisbee. In 2002 Mr Justice Lightman concluded that the public interest in the model's personal life was not sufficient to justify Ms Frisbee breaking the confidentiality clause in her contract. The judge also said that there was a substantial public interest in requiring parties to comply with contractual obligations not to disclose confidences. He concluded that for the defence of public interest to override an explicit obligation of confidence, as a rule, the information must go beyond being interesting to the public: there must be a pressing public need to know. Mr Coad explained: \"In a role like that, who's to tell if the [Beckham's] nanny's telling the truth? The judge in this case, Langley, is not to know. What else has he to take into account other than the newspaper saying it's true? You can't restore privacy - once it's gone, it's gone. \"There are other values here to take into account. What about the sanctity of the family? It's not just David and Victoria Beckham - what about their children? What deception of the public have they done? Their rights just get trashed in the orgy of free speech argument. \"The Beckhams must challenge it and appeal. If they don't, anybody can say anything about them,\" said Mr Coad. Suggestions have also been made that there might have been a different outcome to the Beckhams' request for an injunction if a judge specialising in media had been adjudicating, rather than the duty high court judge, Mr Justice Langley. One lawyer who declined to be named said: \"One's reluctant to be critical of Langley but this area of law regarding privacy is so finely balanced. It would have been preferable to have someone who does do a lot of media work. \"It's not a field that Langley knows as well so he might not be as well equipped to balance the submissions.\" However, Niri Shan, the Taylor Wessing media and entertainment partner who advised nanny Abbie Gibson last week, said the outcome was a victory for free speech. He said the courts seemed to be moving more towards Lord Woolf's ruling in 2002 on A vs B - the case in which footballer Garry Flitcroft tried to prevent the media identifying him. Lord Woolf - the country's most senior judge, ruled that Mr Justice Jack was wrong to prevent the People publishing the interviews with women Flitcroft had had affairs with. Woolf said public figures were entitled to privacy, but had to recognise that their public position meant that their actions would be subjected to close scrutiny by the media. Mr Shan explained: \"The courts have recently moved away from the test of public interest. It seems to be going back to A vs B, which basically said that it's right the public should know about what's behind the celebrity's image.\" When asked what the practical implications for stars might be, Mr Shan said: \"Celebrities might have to be wary about being proactive in manipulating the media. \"They might not talk about their personal lives and keep questions confined to their career. But I think the celebrities need the media, more than the media needs the celebrities.\" As to how the outcome will affect privacy laws and press freedom, an insider who worked on the case said the future is not clear cut: \"The thing is it may be a vain search, looking for a precedent or something concrete following the Beckhams' failed injunction. If you alter the facts of the case that may alter the outcome and hardly any two are the same.\" \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Beckham ruling divides media lawyers",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "6pm update: The decision not to grant the Beckhams an injunction preventing their former nanny telling her story in the News of the World has divided legal experts. By Tara Conlan",
  "id": "media/2005/apr/25/newsoftheworld.pressandpublishing2",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}