{
  "content": "Here we go again. Sunday's tabloids overflowed with pictures and stories about Prince William in an eerie rerun of the media barrage that regularly greeted his late mother. The News of the World and the Mail on Sunday ran paparazzi shots of the prince indulging in horseplay with a girl during a sports day at his Scottish university, St Andrews. The People, citing an unnamed police source, claimed the prince is planning to celebrate his 21st birthday next month by going on a \"marathon pub crawl\". The Sunday Mirror, quoting anonymous \"courtiers\", splashed on a story that alleged the prince is planning to spend \"a few years living in the States\" once he finishes his degree course. A similar tale appeared in the Sunday Express. Those stories followed Saturday's two-page article in the Sun, which suggested - on very little evidence - the prince and a fellow student are enjoying a romance, again illustrated by sneak pictures. So, after years of press restraint due to an agreement orchestrated by the press complaints commission and St James's Palace, why was Prince William suddenly in the headlines? Wasn't he supposed to be left alone during his undergraduate years? It appears the prince is a victim of an error of judgment by his father's senior palace aides, who have agreed he will give Peter Cox, the editor of Glasgow-based tabloid the Daily Record, the first media interview of his life. In view of the ferocious level of competition among tabloids, this ranks as a naive decision. When rival papers realised the Record was about to get an exclusive they would all die for, they complained bitterly to the palace. They argued the deal broke the informal \"level playing field\" agreement which means no paper is to be treated any differently from any other as long as they continue not to intrude the prince's privacy. They were informed by a spokeswoman that the Record was being rewarded for having been \"helpful\" during the prince's time at university. Rebekah Wade, the editor of the Sun, was upset because the Record is owned by Trinity Mirror, the publisher of the Daily Mirror, and she believes her main rival will benefit from the scoop. I understand a senior executive from the Daily Mail later spoke to Prince Charles's private secretary, Sir Michael Peat, who could not see what all the fuss was about. The Record was a Scottish paper, quite separate from national titles, he said, and would pool the copy and photographs to other papers north of the border. The Mail and the Sun do not believe the Record has been any kinder towards Prince William than other papers. Indeed, the Record was guilty of running a false story about the prince, which claimed he was covered head to toe in foam during a university rag week stunt. It later transpired the prince had not attended the event. But that incident was at the beginning of the prince's undergraduate career and the Record has since left the prince alone. Cox, who has spent eight months negotiating with the palace, said: \"It is clear Wills doesn't like doing interviews. We are in first and I think that is absolutely right because it was our campaign that got him to that position.\" There has been a running battle between press and palace behind the scenes over a possible interview with William. For months the Daily Mail's royal correspondent, Richard Kay, believed he would enjoy a one-to-one with the prince. That tentative agreement was withdrawn in favour of a group interview with journalists from the Mail, Sun, Daily Mirror and Daily Telegraph. Other papers would then receive the pooled material. But the Record deal has incensed editors enough for them to take the gloves off. Hence, the recent spate of stories that began last month when the News of the World ran paparazzi pictures of the prince. Its editor, Andy Coulson, explained his decision to the Commons select committee investigating media intrusions into privacy by arguing editors were frustrated at the lack of press facilities granted by William's advisers. Several royal correspondents believe the new regime working for Prince Charles lacks the expertise of the departed deputy private secretary, Mark Bolland, who would never have granted the Record exclusive rights. To an extent, this internecine Fleet Street row over the Record's exclusive is a repeat of the storm that broke on William's 18th birthday, when the Daily Telegraph was on the verge of scooping other papers because one of its photographers had been given privileged access to the prince. In the aftermath, a member of the palace's press staff was forced to resign. But the new dispute has the hallmarks of a more profound problem that echoes the experiences of William's mother, Diana, Princess of Wales. Once he turns 21 and leaves university, the prince will no longer be able to rely on the press's self-denying ordinance. The paparazzi, who have been stalking William for months, have previously had no market for their pictures in Britain. It already looks as if the situation is changing. Are we on our way back to 1997?",
  "title": "The prince and the papers",
  "lead": " After years of media restraint, a palace aide's error of judgment has resulted in a flood of stories about Prince William appearing in the press, writes Roy Greenslade",
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "uk/prince-william",
    "uk/uk",
    "uk/monarchy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/may/07/privacy.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}