{
  "content": "I'm sure I'm the only person in Edinburgh's Meadow Bar who knows comedian Tony Cowards is about to take the stage. That's not unusual: plenty of fringe standups have performed in quiet pubs to handfuls of oblivious drinkers. Except Cowards is not in the Scottish capital at all, but the spare bedroom of his Swindon home. And his audience are some 500 followers on Twitter. His free @noticketshow is streaming a succession of one-liners \u2013 \"I always wanted to be a web designer, or as we called them back then, a spider\" \u2013 live at 2pm, every weekday on the microblogging site. It may not involve any tangible financial reward, but his 34-minute performance is a smash. Where else at the festival can a comedian attract over 100 audience members during, and even after the show finishes (644 at the time of writing, more than the capacity of the Assembly's brand new venue on Princes Street)? Some punters driving up to the fringe are following the gig on mobile phones, but most of the crowd seem to be workshy office employees around the UK. @potterandy tweets: \"Nice one, really enjoyed it. Its [sic] made work better for 40 minutes. Can I have a put down for my useless boss on Monday?\" @Saaedmsadiq quips: \"I'm staying put till Monday to save my seat.\" After no small amount of faffing with the computers in the pub, my own laptop and various applications, I find a reasonable way of following Cowards, his fans and occasional voices of dissent (@glentorran99 opines: \"@NoTicketShow crap and for that reason I'm out\") is through a search for @noticketshow on Tweetdeck. I'm not convinced it's the best seat in the house, but it'll do. It occurs to me that Cowards could be an automated punbot, created by some malevolent corporation to market Christmas crackers or fruit lollies. So I type: \"Hey @noticketshow. How do we know you're really Tony &amp; not a carefully programmed string of tweets? And I've had your mum. #twitterheckle.\" While hardly Wildean, his response convinces me of his authenticity: \"@jayirichardson My mum said you were rubbish in bed and had a tiny winkle.\" Cowards plans to introduce greater interaction into the shows as he settles into his run, but is already tweeting bespoke jokes for individuals on requested subjects and retweeting guest gags from other Fringe comics as a plug for their shows. While no one expects Twitter gigs to replace live, physical comedy, the audiences could be huge. Tiernan Douieb's Twitter Comedy Club of June 2009, featuring Gary Delaney, Mark Watson, Mitch Benn, Pappy's and Matt Kirshen, who was tweeting from the back of an actual gig, and Carl Donnelly, who cheekily linked to a pre-recorded You Tube video of himself, attracted over 6,500 followers. The vast majority of UK comedians have an account on the social networking site, if only to advertise their forthcoming dates. Most appreciate its potential to let them interact with fans, try out gags, and, of course, inadvertently write for Keith Chegwin. Other comics are more ambitious. On 26 June, Pappy's Matt Crosby attempted his variation on The Diceman, Twitterman, with followers of his #twitterman hashtag invited to direct his actions throughout the day. He ended up removing his trousers in a bookstore, watching the Sex and the City movie on his laptop while in a cinema showing Sex and the City 2, then meeting a follower after jumping on a randomly selected train to Birmingham. For Bruce Fummey's Cheapflighttuesday, the Scottish comic flew the cheapest Ryanair flight he could to various European destinations, where his followers set him challenges such as finding a ginger Italian in Sardinia and learning how to make haggis so he could teach the Danish. It's not just Twitter that comedians are using to engage with remote audiences. YouTube is rarely perceived as a social networking site, yet Holly Walsh and Jon Petrie's Popcorn Comedy, a regular live showcase and attendant website of original video content, featuring established comics alongside anyone who cares to submit their films and is deemed amusing enough, has decamped from London to Edinburgh in August for a Best Of retrospective. With an iPhone application and genuine sense of community, the show blurs boundaries between performer, audience and talent scout. Yet perhaps the most exciting development in remote comedy is currently happening in Galway, Ireland, where Kiwi comic Danny Dowling and Irishman John Donnellan's monthly Comedy Comedy gigs in the Roisin Dubh Laughter Lounge feature standups from the UK, US and Australia \"appearing\" live via Skype and projected onto a screen alongside their Irish counterparts. Dowling intends to erect two screens at the Galway arts festival in October so that three continents of comics can riff off each other simultaneously. If, as has been rumoured, Skype develops an open channel feature, such gigs could be viewed by a near-limitless online audience, though Dowling's ambitions don't end there. He plans to project himself onto an Edinburgh building at the 2011 fringe. Which is all well and good, but until the internet can recreate the experience of expiring slowly from the heat in cramped attic furnaces, the splashing of beer as latecomers stumble apologetically past \u2013 not to mention the discernible whiff of fear as a nervous young comic tries to stretch a strong 20-minute club set over an hour \u2013 I remain nostalgic for live comedy, up close, personal, and subject only to power failures in the immediate area.",
  "title": "Can Twitter wit replace live comedy?",
  "lead": "Jay Richardson: Tweeting standup has its limitations, yet it gets a bigger audience than most other acts at the Edinburgh festival",
  "tags": [
    "stage/edinburgh-festival-2010",
    "culture/edinburghfestival",
    "stage/comedy",
    "stage/stage",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "culture/2010/aug/09/live-comedy-via-twitter-skype",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}