{
  "content": "When I eventually joined Facebook about two years ago, I imposed one very firm rule: I would accept as Facebook friends only people with whom I was real-life friends. This, then, presented me with something of a quandary last Thursday night when a most unexpected message flashed up: \"Ron Freeman and Helen Freeman added you as a friend on Facebook.\" Dear God, the end is nigh - my parents have joined Facebook. Turning on my computer has now become a daily trauma. \"Ron Freeman is married!\" was the cheerful message I woke up to on Friday, which was reassuring to know. In some ways, their Facebook activity so far has been pretty predictable: my father has chosen as his profile picture a photo that makes him look like the US secretary of state. My mother, who may now be a Facebook wizz but has yet to master this new-fangled digital camera malarky, goes photo-less. But something very weird is going on. Within 12 hours of joining, my mother had 32 friends and my father had 25, most of whom I'd never before heard of. How could this be? The realisation that your parents have secret lives of which you are not a part is surely one of the most traumatic points of transition into adulthood. Worse, they are already being friended by old family friends who, in all my time on Facebook, never bothered with me. At this rate my mother will be officially more popular than me by Wednesday. The day they start poking one another is the day I phone Drew Barrymore and get the number for the lawyer who helped her to divorce her parents. So yes, I did accept them as friends - it seemed the mature thing to do - but I did slap a \"Limited Profile\" tag on them, meaning they could see little other than my photo. They don't seem to have noticed this yet. I, however, have taken to checking out their profile pages hourly to watch their doings. And this has proven to be the most depressing realisation of all: I am more fascinated by my parents' lives than they are by mine.",
  "title": "Hadley Freeman: Oh no! My parents have joined Facebook",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "lifeandstyle/family",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "media/media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Hadley Freeman: The day they start poking one another is the day I phone Drew Barrymore for the number of the lawyer who helped her divorce her parents",
  "id": "media/2009/jan/19/facebook-social-networking-parents",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}