{
  "content": "While there was a sense of persistent sniping at Heather Mills McCartney during her short time as Sir Paul McCartney's missus, the tabloids have seized upon the couple's separation as an excuse to explore the parameters of character assassination. We are led to believe that editors had previously refrained from unleashing their purveyors of sleaze on \"Lady Mucca\" out of deference to Sir Paul. Readers, it would seem, would not like their chosen daily read to stitch up the wife of one so famous and popular. The Sun unleashed New International's open season on Mills McCartney with its \"hard core porn shame\" allegations, which were followed up by the News of the World's \"Heather, the \u00a35,000 hooker\" story that was more or less repeated in the Mail. As Mills McCartney mulls over the latest round of expos\u00e9s with her lawyers, will the courts be able to offer her protection from such a predatory press? The alleged unmasking of Mills McCartney relates to activities from her previous life as a glamour model. To the extent that some might show surprise over explicit pictures from a 1980s German sex guide, are these any different or worse than her numerous appearances for the very paper that now takes such delight in maligning her? All that is \"new\" about the \"revelations\" that are meant to be so shocking is the timing of their publication. What public interest is being served by sensationalising such stale stories? Has Mills McCartney deliberately misled the public and her husband over her past life and activities or did she merely move on and leave it behind her? To justify their intrusive assault on Mills McCartney, the press may have to provide something more legally substantial than what they've managed to dig up so far. What is interesting about this case is that whether this persistent attack on Mills McCartney's reputation proves to be justified or not, the reputational damage that would form the basis of a claim has already been done. So while on the face of the front pages she may be libelled, her claim could more likely fall to be one of privacy. An attack on someone's character, whether it is true or not, does not preclude a privacy claim. The expos\u00e9 of Naomi Campbell's drug treatment hurt her reputation but did not stop her winning her privacy action. In Europe, the courts have signalled that celebrity status does not mean the media can freely express all they choose at the expense of an individual's privacy. Recent judgments have made clear that whether libel or privacy, they will pay close attention to the circumstances surrounding publication. While the press focus on the headline, the courts may well look beyond and take account of the rights of Mills McCartney and her daughter not to be subjected to such intrusive stories. Whether or not the stories prove justified, the decision to publish them may not. If she decides to litigate, Mills McCartney's case could provide an interesting precedent to test the boundaries of what's acceptable when it comes to such public character assassinations. Recent settlements have shown the press cool off when it comes to proving their point. \u00b7Edgar Forbes is senior lecturer in media law at Bournemouth Media School \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "'Mucca' and Macca: how much is too much?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "uk/heather-mills"
  ],
  "lead": "Comment: If she decides to litigate, Heather Mills McCartney's case could test the boundaries of what's acceptable when it comes to such public character assassinations. By Edgar Forbes",
  "id": "media/2006/jun/13/privacy.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}