{
  "content": "Despite reeling in $160m in venture capital funding and worth an estimated $1bn, Twitter is still on the hunt for sustainable revenue sources to support the company. Early indications on Promoted Trends and Promoted Tweets appear to have been successful, and are part of a larger strategy to avoid paid accounts yet gain financial security. After what seems like a lifetime, the company has now officially announced EarlyBird, which aims to inform users of special promotions that are unique to Twitter and the account. Selected advertisers will pay to distribute offers to the thousands of users present on the network, although none of these has yet been named. The offers will be time sensitive, so fast action will be needed to catch that particular worm. EarlyBird functions in the same way as a normal Twitter account \u2013 for the offers to appear in your follow feed. Unlike Promoted Trends, however, they do not appear automatically on your front page and it is an opt-in service, as opposed to the opt-out follow that had been mooted. EarlyBird tweets can also be retweeted to pass them onto your followers. What's the catch? Initially, EarlyBird offers will be US-centric, although Twitter has said this will likely change: \"We're starting with US-wide offers but will explore location-based deals in the future.\" The opportunity for EarlyBird to go viral is huge, with offers potentially spreading around like internet like wildfire \u2013 if they are deemed worthy enough. As I type, the account has 9,545 followers, something that will need to multiply infinitely for the scheme to be successful. Thanks to the joys of trends and retweeting, this seems likely. Assuming the followers flood in, Twitter will be closer to long-term sustainability.",
  "title": "Twitter: EarlyBird catches the tweets",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Sebastian E Payne: Twitter finally explains new EarlyBird promotional account to distribute exclusive offers to users",
  "id": "technology/blog/2010/jul/07/twitter-launch-earlybird-offers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}