{
  "content": "There appear to be two distinct schools of thought over the Levy affair. The prevailing Labour party view, supported by a minority of journalists, is that both the story and the manner of the investigation were invalid: the former because Levy hadn't acted illegally and the latter because the reporters - or their sources - probably had. Then there is the Sunday Times's viewpoint, backed by most journalists, that Lord Levy's closeness to Tony Blair makes his tax affairs a matter of public interest. Therefore, the use of subterfuge, even if it did involve an illegal act, was justified. It is an argument with a history as long as the existence of newspapers. Governments have long sought to curb a press crying freedom and, in most cases, papers have been correct to defy them. But a closer analysis of the Levy case suggests that the paper's knee-jerk press freedom defence is not as watertight as it first appears. We must follow the affair step by step to discover why. When Levy realised that the Sunday Times had discovered that he paid only \u00a35,000 in tax last year, he was certain the paper had obtained his tax records. Levy then took some very bad advice and tried to prevent publication by going to law. The judge, rightly, refused to grant an injunction in what must rank as something of a landmark ruling. Here was a man active in public life trying to conceal information which, on the face of it, could be of public interest. From that moment Levy was in a worse position than before he had called in his lawyers. His failed gagging bid lent credence to the notion that he had something to hide. In fact, as he cogently argued on TV and radio, there was a perfectly valid reason for his low tax bill. Indeed, the Sunday Times's story and leading article stated clearly that Levy had done nothing illegal or even improper by paying so little. It soon emerged that Levy's anger had more to do with the way the paper obtained the information - or, at least, verified it - than with the exposure itself. He believed journalists had used subterfuge, and possibly broken the law, which the paper's Insight team denied in yesterday's paper in a second attack on Levy's tax arrangements. Most papers were unsympathetic to Levy, concentrating their attention on his foolish legal action and delighting in the obvious embarrassment to Levy and Blair. The public interest had been served. Sometimes it is necessary for journalists to use subterfuge. But here is where the Sunday Times's argument surely begins to weaken. I have few qualms about reporters getting up to all sorts of tricks in order to expose matters of overwhelming public interest. If Levy had been exposed as a criminal, then the ends would have justified the means. If he had been negotiating an illicit arms deal with a foreign country, breaking the law to publish the fact might also be justified. Neither was true in this instance. Levy, by the Sunday Times's own admission, had done nothing illegal. The subterfuge used to discover that fact was reasonable (you cannot know the truth until after you have engaged in the deception) but to publish once it was realised he was 'innocent' was wrong. In other words, the alleged crime committed by the paper was out of all proportion to what it discovered. Contrast the Levy affair with the celebrated \"cod fax\" sent by The Guardian's former editor, Peter Preston, to winkle out information about the hotel stay enjoyed by the Tory minister Jonathan Aitken. In that case, subterfuge was justifiable as being in the wider public interest. The Levy exposure was entirely different. The paper wasn't uncovering a crime or even a gross error of judgment. It placed the non-story of Levy's tax shrewdness on the front page to make a political point as part of its anti-Labour agenda. If Levy were to complain to the Press Complaints Commission, he might do well to point to a recent adjudication about a kiss-and-tell story. On that occasion, the PCC used the concept of \"proportionality\" to decide whether a paper had been right to intrude into a celebrity's privacy. It could measure whether subterfuge is justified in just the same way. While we're on the subject of proportion, am I alone in thinking that the decision of every paper and TV news bulletin to lead on Euan Blair's arrest was way over the top? Some of the coverage was childish (Sun and Mirror front pages). Some was ridiculous (the Daily Telegraph leading article). And some was especially poisonous (the Daily Express leader accusing Blair of \"sentimental spin\"). Callers by the score to the Downing Street switchboard, and a noticeably sympathetic Radio 4 Any Questions panel and audience, illustrated how wrong papers often are. The boy is 16, for God's sake.",
  "title": "Why Levy was a non-story",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "There appear to be two distinct schools of thought over the Levy affair. The prevailing Labour party view, supported by a minority of journalists, is that both the story and the manner of the investigation were invalid: the former because Levy hadn't acted illegally and the latter because the reporters - or their sources - probably had. ",
  "id": "media/2000/jul/10/pressandpublishing.mondaymediasection1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}