{
  "content": "In the aftermath of President Obama's re-election, the Republican party is undergoing a much-needed period of introspection. While this introspection is crucial, it's also vital that we Republicans don't misdiagnose or \"spin\" the reasons for our loss. In the end, Mitt Romney's defeat was the result of a Republican party fractured by intellectual and ideological conflict. Ultimately, successful presidential election coalitions are not found in a party's base: basic math tells us there simply aren't enough hardcore Democrats or Republicans alone to propel a candidate to victory. Therefore, in order to win elections, a candidate must construct, motivate and mobilize a broad coalition that positively engages a majority of voters. But where, as with the current Republican party, a coalition is riven by \"ideational fracture\", a hemorrhaging of voters inevitably follows. Unless Republicans address our fracture, the outcome in 2016 won't be as bad as in 2012; it will be even worse. For me, the failure of the present GOP coalition resides on three key fractures: the intellectual fracture, the state-individual relationship fracture and the national identity fracture. First, let's consider the intellectual fracture. As it exists at the moment, the Republican party is a home for both the policy wonk and the wonk hater. This contrast was crystallized in the vastly different GOP vice-presidential candidates of 2008 and 2012. Where 2008 gave Republicans Sarah Palin, the charismatic, populist warrior railing against \"liberal elites\", conversely, 2008 brought Paul Ryan, a man who revels in an immersion of complex issues. While the Republican base was largely enamored with both Palin and Ryan, beyond the excitement of the campaign season, obvious problems exist in the presence of such an evident stylistic and substantive dichotomy. When Sarah Palin attacks academic \"elites\" and frames policy questions as \"gotcha\" attacks, the effect is not simply to energize elements of the GOP base, but also to encourage a lingering perception in the minds of independent voters that discussion and compromise are irreconcilable enemies of the Republican brand. This is evidenced in the conservative reaction to remarks influential Republican intellectual Bill Kristol made on Sunday, when he suggested that as part of a broader debt deal, raising taxes on millionaires wouldn't ruin the country. Rather than recognizing the conservative benefits of a willingness to negotiate in good faith (preserving our military), many conservatives instead labeled Kristol a traitor. The electoral costs of this orthodoxy fetishism reach far beyond Romney's loss. Just ask former Senators Richard Lugar and Scott Brown. Lugar lost his office because his willingness to engage in bipartisanship was characterized by his primary opponent as a form of \"elitist\" betrayal. Brown lost, at least in part, because his opponent was successfully able to associate Brown with Republican candidates like Lugar's victor, Mourdock, who trumpet an absolutist language of ideological purity. Thus, in the experience of Brown and Lugar, we see the catastrophic dynamic that stems from the pursuit of purity as an end in itself. That purity has cost Republicans two Senate seats, the loss of a bipartisan leader on foreign policy, the isolation of Republican voters in Massachusetts and a further retrenchment of the GOP identity. Not great. Next, there's the Republican fracture over the state's role in regulating private conduct. For a succinct example, while the Republican party generally supports gun rights, the story on gay rights is far less clear. However, in opposing even civil union financial rights for homosexuals, the Republican party has assumed an untenable position on individual freedom. The problem is that for many potential Republican voters, while the party is regarded positively with regard to freedom from high taxes, or freedom from excessive business regulation, or freedom of gun ownership, the GOP is also viewed as asserting grossly excessive government intrusion into the private lives of law-abiding adults. As with the intellectual fracture, the electoral impact here is clear. While many gay Americans, American women, young Americans and atheist Americans respond positively to much of the Republican message, ultimately these voters are alienated by an apparent Republican determination to trespass into their private lives. As a result, from being perceived as a party that stands for a bold, cogent message of freedom, the GOP is too often seen to stand for a hypocritical mix of both freedom and government intrusion. And when it's personal, people tend to reflect that understanding in their voting choices. This isn't to say that the GOP shouldn't be a party for the religious or pro-life; of course, it should be. But the GOP can't just be a party for the religious and for those who believe that abortion deserves outright restriction. It must be more openly inclusive. Finally, there's the fracture over GOP understandings of national identity. Historically, a great Republican strength has been our promotion of an inclusive and unified national identity. From Lincoln's destruction of slavery to the role of congressional Republicans in pushing through the Civil Rights Act, the party has much to be proud of. On paper, at least, the GOP has a tangible foundation from which to seek the support of minority voters. The familiar problem? Too many Republican policies actively alienate otherwise GOP-friendly minority voters. While Republicans might point to Marco Rubio and Condoleezza Rice as representatives of an inclusive party, minority voters also see aggressive anti-immigration legislation (see Arizona Governor Jan Brewer). Minority voters also hear about electric fences and \"self-deportation\". Minority voters also find Republican attacks on their right to free worship. Suddenly, popular Republican messages on social mobility, taxation and personal responsibility fade into insignificance. And voting for Republican candidates becomes much more difficult. The Republican party faces a major challenge. Without roots in a coalition that is united upon common, consistent and inclusive conceptions of freedom, the Republican party will continue to alienate voters. Until we re-examine the absent consistency of our arguments, too many Americans will continue to regard the GOP as a party that stands for everything and for nothing. An ally one day and an enemy the next. A guardian for your bank balance, but also an aggressive voyeur in your bedroom. Republicans must stand firmly for freedom. If we do, we'll fix our coalition and we'll win decisive electoral victories well into the future.",
  "title": "Republican party needs a coalition beyond its core | Tom Rogan",
  "lead": "Tom Rogan: Hostage to its base, the GOP is seen as pro-freedom on some issues but prurient and intrusive on others. We can't win like this",
  "tags": [
    "us-news/republicans",
    "us-news/us-elections-2012",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "us-news/us-politics",
    "law/us-constitution-and-civil-liberties",
    "us-news/us-congress",
    "world/world",
    "world/lgbt-rights",
    "society/gay-marriage",
    "world/religion",
    "us-news/usimmigration",
    "law/law",
    "us-news/usdomesticpolicy",
    "us-news/sarahpalin",
    "us-news/paul-ryan",
    "us-news/mittromney",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/nov/13/republican-party-coalition-beyond-core",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}