{
  "content": "Maxine Carr yesterday broke her media silence to deny covering up for Ian Huntley, but at the same time possibly threw the court order protecting her privacy into doubt. In a short telephone interview with a reporter from the Mail on Sunday, the former classroom assistant said she had had no idea Huntley had killed the Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman when she lied to police to protect him. \"I was stupid and lied, but I never had any idea what he had done,\" she said. \"All this stuff is being written about me. But what about him? He's being left alone.\" The Home Office yesterday dismissed reports in the News of the World that police protection for Ms Carr, 27, would be withdrawn after the interview. In a statement the Home Office said it was for the courts to decide whether the newspaper article would have any effect on the order protecting her privacy. There was also speculation that she may have been in breach of the terms of her probation as it is usual for high profile prisoners to give an undertaking not to talk to the media. Ms Carr was given a new identity following her release after serving a jail sentence for perverting the course of justice. During a hearing in May it emerged she had received \"real and immediate\" threats to her life. One person who wrote to her said she would be shot. The Mail on Sunday claimed that neither Ms Carr nor her family had received any payment. It appears she gave the interview after telephoning her sister, Hayley Hodgson, who happened to be with the reporter at the time. In the interview Ms Carr said she was certain that letters written to her by the former school caretaker - in which, she claims, he pleaded with her not to believe that he had carried out the killings - proved she was unaware of the truth. \"Why would he say that if I knew what he had done?\" she asked. \"It shows I didn't know. I am considering releasing this letter - it might make people believe that I didn't know what he had done.\" She said she was grateful that many people who recognise her had told her they believed she had been poorly treated. She also denied claims that she is living a life of luxury. Last week Shirley Capp, Ms Carr's mother, was jailed for six months for intimidating a witness in the Soham murder trial.",
  "title": "Maxine Carr speaks of her new life",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/soham",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Maxine Carr yesterday broke her media silence to deny covering up for Ian Huntley, but at the same time possibly threw the court order protecting her privacy into doubt. By Jamie Wilson",
  "id": "media/2004/jul/26/privacy.soham",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}