{
  "content": "Tim Toulmin is director of the Press Complaints Commission This was clearly a powerful blast against the judiciary's involvement in the developing area of privacy. It is no secret that things have changed quite rapidly in terms of the law in the last few years. [This is] quite clearly a deeply held personal view about, in [Dacre's] view, the deleterious effects of that. From the PCC's point of view, there is no point in making a judgment call on whether that change is for the worse. We are not editors ... What we have to acknowledge is that the regulatory framework is changing because of the law, and we have to constantly publicise ... what the PCC is doing on privacy. While people think there is a rush to the courts, actually the PCC is busier than ever over privacy. Dan Tench, partner Olswang solicitors; expert in media and human rights law I am puzzled that Paul Dacre believes the press is having a privacy law imposed on it \"insidiously\". We plainly have a privacy law now in place in everything but name ... This is not the doing of Mr Justice Eady ... Mr Dacre argues that this significantly impedes proper journalism. But there is a public interest defence to any privacy claim. The trouble is that much of the salacious but invasive material published in the tabloid press has no obvious public interest. He also seems to argue that we need to have these invasions of privacy because they ... form the basis of a vibrant, popular media that can then challenge more significant misdemeanours ... Can one really justify such invasions simply because they maintain a buoyant media? Rebekah Wade, editor of the Sun The point of concern is there is just one man making the law by setting a precedent sitting on his own. In a democracy that cannot be good for society. The point of having one solitary judge who is unelected and unaccountable who is setting a precedent in British law ... I think a lot of people will be surprised that he sat alone in the Max Mosley case because there's no jury in privacy cases. As a paper we agree with everything [Dacre] said. It is long overdue - in a democratic society with a free press it cannot be in our interest that one solitary judge is setting legal precedent. \u00b7 This article was amended on Tuesday November 11 2008. Max Mosley brought a privacy case against the News of the World, rather than a libel claim as a quote from Rebekah Wade, the editor of the Sun, suggested.",
  "title": "A regulator, a lawyer and an editor comment on Paul Dacre's view of the press and privacy",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pauldacre",
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/sun",
    "media/media",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "A regulator, a lawyer and an editor comment on Paul Dacre's view of the press and privacy",
  "id": "media/2008/nov/11/paul-dacre-daily-mail-privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}