{
  "content": "Rarely has there been a more disgraceful behind-the-scenes lobbying campaign than that conducted last week by members of my own industry. As a result, the government has agreed to drop implementation of a clause under which journalists could have been jailed for illegal data theft. Tabloid newspapers want the right to commit crimes with impunity. They want to be allowed to break the law by bugging the phones and stealing the banking and health records of members of the public, in cases where there is not a shred of public interest involved. And they have the brazenness to complain that this campaign is designed to protect \"investigative journalism\". It does no such thing. It allows the continuance of the cynical invasion of the privacy of celebrities and other, little, people, in the interests of making money out of tittle-tattle. I have been a reasonably successful investigative journalist for 30 years and I have never done anything to my knowledge that would have caused me to fall foul of the data law. I'm quite willing to take my chances before a jury to explain that what I do is in the \"public interest\". What really threatens genuine investigative journalism in this country is the justified contempt and fear many ordinary people feel about the methods of the tabloid press. Proper investigative journalists get tarred with the same sleazy commercial brush as the rat-pack. We should be cleaning up our industry, not defending its excesses. Curiously, what the present bullying campaign was about was never the threat of a new law. It was the threat that an existing law might be properly enforced. It is an offence under the Data Protection Act to steal information from banking, credit card or health records, or data from phone bills - unless there is a public interest. But the prescribed penalty is only a fine. In the last couple of years, the information commissioner, Richard Thomas, uncovered, to his dismay, evidence of a mushrooming industry in data theft. Private detectives were making good livings by conning, \"blagging\" and bribing information out of the thousands of clerks, coppers and government call-centre operatives who act as guardians of electronic data - including car number plates, BT's lists of your \"family and friends\" and ex-directory phone numbers. The targets are mainly celebrities, minor royals, and crime victims and their innocent relations. These private eyes regard the occasional fine as a minor cost of doing business. And their most regular customers have turned out to be two sets of apparently respectable institutions - big City law firms acting for business rivals, and, overwhelmingly, national newspapers. The Daily Mail, Britain's most self-righteous \"law and order\" organ, has been a particularly prolific user, along with the Murdoch press. These newspapers know very well that what they are doing is disreputable and illegal. That is why they sub-contract the work to private detectives, who in turn often subcontract it further down the food chain. The real villains hide behind minor criminals, who have to be willing to take the fall if necessary. Nick Davies, in his book Flat Earth News, details how Thomas found piles of newspaper invoices at the homes of private eyes raided by his department. But, dismayingly, he feared his official budget would not run to taking on the journalists and the massed ranks of media QCs in court. Instead, he lobbied for the inadequate penalties to be increased, to include jail sentences. And to judge by the squeals from the tabloids, this might have acted as a genuine deterrent. Of course, there are legitimate reservations about a clause which might add to the power of the British state to penalise journalists for practising a form of journalism. It would be wrong to stuff Britain's bursting jails with more inmates, except for crimes of violence. Guilty editors ought to be given community service perhaps, rather than be locked up, as was the News of the World reporter Clive Goodman last year for hacking into royal gossip. But this is an argument for sensible judges, not for granting the tabloids a free pass to act with impunity. The tabloids have demonstrated by their ready access to Gordon Brown that they have political cover. Perhaps Thomas and his small team of officials can be forgiven for recognising their own weakness. Industry lobbyists have claimed journalists might be in unjustified peril because they often commission inquiries without being certain where they might lead, and therefore might be unable to establish a public interest defence. This is the purest hogwash. If you buy the mobile phone records of Amy Winehouse's mother, say, you know perfectly well there is no public interest involved. For some editors, as they have done, to invoke the spectre of Robert Mugabe in such a grubby campaign against British government \"tyranny\", is really to demean those courageous journalists who risk their careers and lives to expose real tyrants and real corruption. \u00b7 David Leigh is assistant editor (investigations) of the Guardian",
  "title": "Analysis: a licence to steal data",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Analysis, David Leigh: The government has agreed to drop implementation of a clause under which journalists could have been jailed for illegal data theft",
  "id": "media/2008/apr/07/privacy.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}