{
  "content": "Episode Eight: New Year, old jokes and the insincerest form of hackery By the time you read this, all being well, I will be drunk. Epic drunkenness is, after all, the true spirit of New Year, as much as the birth of Jesus is the true spirit of Christmas and giving old people something to keep their fingers nimble is the real meaning of Poppy Day. In fact, the idea of New Year's Eve - as we currently celebrate it - began, many Sundays ago, with an Englishman, an Irishman, a Scotsman and an Australian in a pub. After a few hours of drinking - around about noon - they were all twatted. \"What's the date today?\" slurred the Irishman. The Scotsman squinted at his watch for a moment - \"Jings, crivens and help ma boab! It's 31st December. It's a new year tomorrow.\" \"Bonzer!\" shouted the Australian, slamming down his pint, \"that sounds like cause for celebration!\" The Englishman paused for a moment, a worried look spreading across his face - \"Crikey chaps, if we keep drinking like this all day, I'm never going to make it to work tomorrow. And my poor wife and kids are waiting at home.\" Another pause. \"Ah, fuck it.\" And with those words, a tradition was born; an annual celebration of alcoholism where - unlike, say, Christmas - it's perfectly acceptable to forget you have a family and to spend all night getting absolutely trashed with your friends, safe in the knowledge that there's a public holiday the following day. I mean, come on, a public holiday specifically to cater for hangovers? Tell me that wasn't the idea of an Englishman, an Irishman a Scotsman and an Australian. For the Brits, of course, inventing New Year is just a continuation of our proud history of coming up with brilliant ideas in pubs. The pneumatic tyre? Pub. The steam engine? Pub. The television. Definitely the pub. In fact, the only British invention not to have come from the pub, was the pub. I can imagine Robert Baden-Powell waking up one morning with the mother of all hangovers and calling up his mates to see if, in the harsh light of day, they're all still up for founding the Scouts. (Another great example of a British idea so ill-thought-out it can only be the result of an epic session is Culture, Media and Sport Secretary Andy Burnham's plan to give content ratings to websites. Enough woodland has been raped and sufficient digital ink shed by columnists explaining exactly how unworkable the idea is, and I have no intention of adding to it. I will, however, remark on how curious it is that every single one of those columnists felt the need to point out that Andy Burnham is \"a father of three\". Because God knows, if Karen Matthews has taught us anything, it's that in matters of child welfare, only a parent knows what's best. It also puzzles me how no one picked up on the amusing fact that Andy Burnham's full name is Andy Murray Bernham - or that when pictured in his glasses and checked shirt, he looks exactly like Paul Birch.) So, anyway, yes, New Year - and the second in a series of columns (the first being Christmas Eve) when it's traditional to write bugger all about anything important, safe in the knowledge that no one is reading. At least on Christmas Eve there's a chance that a smattering of non-Christians might still be paying attention. Not so New Year's Eve. On New Year's Eve I could write a column proposing that the Palestinians be allowed to organise the New Year's fireworks in Golders Green, sponsored by the Iranian Rocket Company and no one would give a toss. The only people not getting drunk right now are the Chinese - and I reckon the Guardian's website is about as accessible in Beijing as Wokthevote.com. But what to write in a week when nobody's reading? It's a tricky question and last night, hurtling towards my deadline and still absolutely bereft of inspiration, I decided to click over to the websites of the Daily Mail and The Sun to see how professional journalists deal with the problem. And sure enough there it was - a ruse so simple I couldn't believe I hadn't thought of it myself. \"Shameless Jonathan Ross still joking about Andrew Sachs messages\" screamed the headline on the Mail's site. I quote... \"In a post on the Twitter website [Jonathan Ross] used an expletive to describe BBC executives when discussing the concept of a film about his life... In another he made light of the obscene messages he and Russell Brand left on Sachs's answering machine on Brand's Radio 2 show, in which the pair claimed Brand had slept with the Fawlty Towers actor's granddaughter Georgina Baillie. Ross joked: 'I am very polite in person. I'm just not great with answering machines.'\" Brilliant. An entire story created out of the fact that Jonathan Ross has a Twitter account, and occasionally uses it to make quite funny jokes about his personal situation. Meanwhile, Sun hack Cara Lee went one better, hacking out not one, but two pieces from that same non-story under the headlines 'Ross jokes about Sachs' and 'Ross: I'm having so much fun'. And never one to switch dead horses mid-flog, the paper then passed the bloodied news baton to Julie Burchill who wrote a whole column starting with yet another of @wossy's Twitter updates and ending with her calling Ross \"a big ugly baby\". The woman is nothing if not self-aware. You can imagine how stupid I felt reading all of this. There was me actually worrying about writing something original or interesting, while Britain's best paid hacks \u2013 including Burchill, who I would estimate is paid about 10,000 times more than me, and writes for an audience of 7 million \u2013 can just copy and paste someone else's Twitter posts, wrap them in shit and vinegar and call the job a good-un. And so, at 11pm last night \u2013 with just a couple of hours to spare before I was due to file \u2013 I posted the following to my Twitter followers... \"Twitterers... tell me your favourite joke in 160 characters or less. Reason will become clear. Thanks.\" The fact that I was too lazy to even get the number of characters right (it's 140, you dolt), didn't stop the replies pouring in. Here are a few of my favourites, starting with the finest geek joke ever Twittered... LucPestille: What sits on your shoulder and repeats \"Pieces of seven, pieces of seven!\"? A parity error. P_Diamond: Why are we sure that carrots help with eyesight? Because you never see a rabbit wearing glasses. Jackschofield: A woman went into a bar and asked for a double entendre. So the barman gave her one. Hermioneway: What do you call a train filled with toffee? A chew chew train! Mweller: Why did the toilet roll down the hill? To get to the bottom. Zainyk: Egg and sausage in frying pan, egg says to sausage, It's hot in here. Sausage says to egg f$ck me, a talking egg! Tom_watson: Man walks into a butchers and asks for a pound of kidleys. Butcher said, you mean, kidneys. Man said, that's what I said diddle I? Great job, Twitter - but that's only half the job done. Having copied and pasted someone else's work, I still have to stir up some mock outrage off the back of it - otherwise it's just plagarism. Fortunately I happen to know that Tom_watson is better known to his constituents as Tom Watson MP - the Labour MP for West Bromwich East. And as a public figure - despite the fact that he Twitters in a personal capacity and is clearly joking - Tom is fair game for whatever accusation I decide to throw at him. In this case, I'd say that his joke (which I think he stole from the Two Ronnies) is almost certainly intended to mock those afflicted with learning difficulties. And, needless to say, I'm outraged. Outraged. Unfortunately, thanks to all of those jokes, I'm also out of space for this week - and for this year - so I'll have to leave the rest of this shamefully disingenuous journojism to the experts. What do you think, Julie? \"Outrage at Cabinet minister's cruel disability jibe?\" Go get him, you mental bitch. And for the rest of you - thank you for doing my job for me. I'm off to spend the money I just earned from your hard work to get absolutely hammered. Viva user generated content. And happy new year! \u2022 Paul Carr is author of Bringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs at paulcarr.com and cannot believe no one had registered WokTheVote.com before now",
  "title": "Not safe for work: New year Twitter joke outrage shock horror probe",
  "lead": "Not safe for work:New Year is a great time for making things up, telling jokes and being outraged, says Paul Carr",
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2008/dec/31/paulcarr-newyear-twitter-outrage",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}