{
  "content": "Last week, former soap actress and I'm a Celebrity contestant Helen Flanagan apologised on Daybreak for tweeting a photo of herself, posing in a black bra, pointing a gun to her head, a few days after the Sandy Hook school shootings. Flanagan apologised profusely, explaining that the image was from an old photo shoot and she'd carelessly tweeted it to her friends to illustrate her hangover. Which sounded credible. Certainly more credible than: \"I did it because I love basking in the notoriety of mocking murdered children and their teachers.\" Going by some of the criticism Flanagan attracted, you'd have thought she'd been guilty of at least that. Arguably, she shouldn't have been posing in her scanties with a gun to her head in the first place. However, the issue wasn't with the rather hackneyed imagery, rather the crass insensitivity of the timing. Fair enough, but what about the timing of the overwrought reaction to Flanagan's actions and the upset this may have caused to loved ones of the victims, some of whom were pestered for a reaction? A reaction to what \u2013 a silly mistake made by a former soap star they'd probably never heard of, thousands of miles away? Now that's upsetting. I'm sure we've all noticed this sequence before. An initial horrible event, an outpouring of sympathy, but then, an aftershock, either intentional (a comedian makes an ill-judged joke), or a mistake (Flanagan), and the \"appalled!\" overreaction runs out of control, to the point where it does more harm than the original faux pas. At the same time, there's a kind of wilful disconnect, with some people seemingly going along with the uproar for the sheer hell of it. It's not that anyone truly believes that someone such as Flanagan would intentionally mock dead children. Rather, they pretend to so that they can indulge in spittle-flecked faux outrage from the moral high ground. Then, after they've hounded the miscreant for a few days, the howl of cod sanctimony peters out until, of course, it erupts elsewhere. In my opinion, this kind of thing is turning tragedy into entertainment in a way that's far more cynical and offensive than the unfortunate timing of a film release. Just as the shootings in Colorado affected the release date of Gangster Squad, the events in Newtown, Connecticut, have led to reported cuts in the Tom Cruise film Jack Reacher and the cancellation of the premiere of Quentin Tarantino's Django Unchained. For his part, Tarantino did not see how the violence in his movies affected real-life events, saying: \"Tragedies happen. Django is a western. Give me a break.\" Elsewhere, Judd Apatow refused to cut a scene featuring a throwaway child murder joke in his film This is 40, explaining that the scene was written years before and there was no plausible link. Don't they have a point? While a modicum of sensitivity is always welcome, ultimately culture stands apart. In the same way, Flanagan's lame \"tits and guns\" shoot happened months ago, and when she tweeted it was only because she had a hangover. Mindless and silly? Well, yeah, but surely unworthy of such uproar? In this instance, the moralising mob is mistaken. As with the films, Flanagan's actions had nothing to do with the shootings and didn't belong in the same context. While the harrowing events of Connecticut are still resonating on a global scale, it doesn't follow that every single thing that happens to be filmed, photographed or, indeed, tweeted should be held accountable to it. Such hysteria (truly felt or mischief-making) does the opposite of honouring the victims and their loved ones. It is enough that Connecticut was a human tragedy. It doesn't need to stand as a moral filter for all cultural events. So shepherds still wash their socks It seems that many people are not singing carols properly. They are warbling away, but getting the words wrong. In their carol-dyslexic world, the \"cattle are mooing\" (rather than lowing), cattle sheds are \"lonely\" rather than lowly and there's a lot of screeching about \"new boy kings\" (rather than newborn). On one level, who cares? This is what hymn books are for and at least they make it to church once a year. On the other, it's funny to think of packed pews reverberating to the likes of, say, Good King Useless or Silent Nightie. Young people are the most heathen about carols. Out of the 1,000 people surveyed, not one could sing a carol all the way through correctly. They probably think The Holly and the Ivy is about Simon Cowell going for a fab lunch with Holly Willoughby. Thirtysomethings are only slightly less godless, with seven out of eight of them not knowing the twist in the tale ending to Once in Royal David's City. Older people, especially pensioners, do best, so no surprise there. Obviously, some of this is due to carols not being as important as they were, with the Christmas single taking precedence. However, is it all about underexposure? Most of us encountered carols at school, but the majority of children still do. It could be that, as people get older, the memories of their childhood, including singing carols, become increasingly vivid. So maybe some of these carol-clueless young people will hit their 70s and suddenly stop singing about cattle mooing and there being no room at the Premier Inn. Until then, it's all about the annual fight for the Christmas number one spot and, of course, the far nobler fight to keep Cliff off it. Facebok users \u2013 are they for real? A new American study says that Facebook is making us fat. This is because it (somewhat artificially) raises self-esteem (\"Look at me, interacting with hundreds of people, only five of whom I've actually met\"), but also lowers self-control in terms of health (\"Who wants to jog when I could be 'liking' other people's pages and eating Doritos in my onesie?\") and spending (\"I'll order that thing I can't afford with magic beans, aka my credit card!\"). There is also a lack of something termed \"mental persistence\" (no, I don't know what it is either, but it sounds vitally important). It all makes a crazy kind of sense. The internet has long replaced beer goggles as the prime aid to meaningful human interaction. It's also the most widespread form of social masking. Tapping away, pretending to be something you're not (popular, say, or even dressed), takes no effort. Compare this to the nightmare of meeting people face to face, with all that potential for exposure and embarrassment. As Homer Simpson once cried: \"OH NO, THE TRUTH!\" Quite. Who needs it? How long before there is a tipping point, whereupon people allow their virtual (Zuckerbergian?) selves to take over from the disappointing reality. When \"real you\" is a hassle you just don't need. Sociologically, this could get interesting. Just as the high street is dying because people prefer shopping online, many clubs and bars could go the same way, with more and people opting to \"exist\" almost solely as virtual beings, trying to ignore the fact that their real selves are broke, bursting out of their onesies and too thick to know what \"mental persistence\" means. What a shame that Philip K Dick isn't around to realise that he completely underestimated the boundaries of human stupidity.",
  "title": "Helen Flanagan was a guilty of a silly stunt, nothing more | Barbara Ellen",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "us-news/newtown-shooting",
    "world/gun-crime",
    "world/world",
    "technology/facebook",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "Barbara Ellen: In the wake of tragedies, too many people are prone to hysterical overreaction",
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/dec/23/helen-flanagan-newtown-shooting-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}