{
  "content": "Pop star Justin Timberlake is suing the News of the World for libel, claiming a report on Sunday that he had been unfaithful to his girlfriend Cameron Diaz was false. Timberlake has instructed leading media lawyers Schillings to issue libel proceedings after a request for damages and a retraction of last Sunday's story, headlined \"Trousersnake did dirty on Diaz\", was refused. Timberlake has consistently denied claims in the media of a split with Diaz. Keith Schilling, the leading media lawyer who represented Naomi Campbell in the model's successful privacy suit against the Daily Mirror, will personally handle Timberlake's case. But the News of the World said today it was standing by its story - billed as a \"kiss-and-tell\" interview with a 22-year-old woman. \"We stand by our story and will vigorously defend these proceedings in court,\" said a spokeswoman. Timberlake is the latest in a line of celebrities to seek redress against Britain's tabloid newspapers in the courts for allegations about their private lives. Last year the actress Nicole Kidman, who was also represented by Mr Schilling, won \"substantial\" libel damages from the Sun and the Daily Mail in out of court settlements over claims she had an affair with her Cold Mountain co-star Jude Law. Former Chelsea football boss Ken Bates was this year awarded \u00a39,000 in libel damages from the London Evening Standard in one of the few cases that made it to court. Many of the high profile court cases of recent years have instead revolved around privacy. Campbell's long-running case legal battle with the Mirror culminated in a House of Lords ruling earlier this year that the newspaper had breached the model's privacy by revealing the details of her treatment for drug addiction. This followed the successful case brought by Catherine Zeta Jones and Michael Douglas against Hello! magazine after it published unauthorised photographs of their wedding despite an exclusive deal with rival celebrity magazine OK!. A high court judge found in favour of the celebrity couple on the grounds of breach of commercial confidence, although he rejected their claim that their privacy had been breached. Separately, the actress Caroline Quentin this week warned media organisations against publishing details of her new home following pieces in two tabloid newspapers earlier this month. Quentin's lawyers claim publishing pictures of her home could be in breach of the Press Complaints Commission code, article 8 of the European convention on human rights and the Data Protection Act. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Timberlake sues News of the World",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Pop star Justin Timberlake is suing the News of the World for libel, claiming a report on Sunday that he had been unfaithful to his actress girlfriend Cameron Diaz was false. By Claire Cozens",
  "id": "media/2004/jul/23/newsoftheworld.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}