{
  "content": "Covert surveillance by MI5, MI6 and the police, including tapping phones and bugging homes, will be exempt from challenge under a new right to privacy contained in the Human Rights Act, it has emerged. The security and intelligence agencies will be protected from any court challenge by a hitherto unnoticed provision in the regulation of investigatory powers bill now going through parliament. The bill covers a wide range of intrusive surveillance techniques, including systematic targeting of an individual over a period of time in order, as the Home Office puts it, \"to obtain a picture of his life, activities and his associates\". It includes the bugging of private property and cars, and the use of \"covert human intelligence sources\" - informants or undercover officers. Ministers will be able to issue orders allowing agencies other than the security and intelligence services to undertake covert surveillance. They include the Department of Health and Social Security, the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Department of Trade and Industry as well as local authorities. While the bill says that warrants for intercepting communications would still be signed by cabinet ministers, authorisation for other forms of surveillance would be given by senior police officers or even local authority officials. The act, which comes into force in England and Wales on October 2, allows individuals to go to the ordinary courts to challenge those in authority who breach the new right of privacy. However, where the activities of the security and intelligence services - or any other group conducting secret surveillance on their behalf - are concerned this right will not exist. Instead of being able to go to the ordinary courts to challenge violations of privacy individuals will be forced to have their cases dealt with by a special tribunal. The proposed body is modelled on existing \"complaints tribunals\" covering the activities of MI5 and other agencies which have existed since 1985. However, though they have received hundreds of complaints, they have never upheld a single complaint. John Wadham, director of the civil rights group Liberty, said last night: \"The regulation of investigatory powers bill authorises the most intrusive kinds of surveillance by some of the most secretive organisations in the country. \"The safeguards in the bill for these very significant invasions into our privacy are inadequate as it is. The most shocking thing is the government intends to give them immunity from normal challenges under the Human Rights Act.\" The irony is that the special tribunal - whose decisions, according to the bill, will not be \"questioned in any court\" - is itself unlikely to meet the requirements of the right to a fair trial in article 6 of the human rights convention incorporated in the Human Rights Act.",
  "title": "MI5 bugging exempt from privacy act",
  "lead": "Covert surveillance by MI5, MI6 and the police, including tapping phones and bugging homes, will be exempt from challenge under a new right to privacy contained in the Human Rights Act, it has emerged. ",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "world/surveillance",
    "uk/mi5",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2000/mar/27/security.internet",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}