{
  "content": "If the ID register turns out to be Gordon Brown's poll tax, he will only have himself to blame. Most people agree that Brown has worked to change Labour's tone - to look like an anti-Blair, in fact. But the man who promised a \"new government with new priorities\" in June 2007 has clung fast (albeit with some repositioning) to the one inherited liability that may eventually destroy him: the national identity scheme. Iraq was a more obvious problem, but Iraq is fading fast. It may be an unpopular, bloody debacle, but it is happening to other people a long way away, and Mr Blair carries the electoral blame into the wilderness with him. ID, on the other hand - another Blair enthusiasm pushed through a divided cabinet - has not yet begun to bite. It is intended to affect everybody and everything. The further it goes, the harder it is for the Labour party to avoid blame if it actually does. The British public didn't give a toss about the poll tax when it was a wonkish piece of local government reform. When the bill materialised, that was a different matter. The opposition parties know this, and have taken positions. The Tories have pledged to scrap the scheme and cancel the fat-cat consultancy contracts. The Lib Dem leaders-in-waiting both intend to defy the law. Sinn F\u00e9in, the DUP, Greens, UKIP, BNP, SWP and the SNP all oppose it unequivocally. The enthusiasts for ID cards do not make a catalogue of judgment: the forlorn rump of the Official Unionists, Robert Durward's New Party, and N9S, a proud Adolf Hitler fan-club. A Martian could see Labour needs a way out, and that if ID cards look like a weakness from all those angles, they probably are. But Gordon Brown is not a Martian. Rather than softening the rhetoric and making the policy more vague, as he has done on Iraq and a dozen other topics since June, Brown has pushed the ID card scheme to centre stage. A dozen data-sharing projects could have been frozen. Instead they were reinforced by a recent little-noticed Treasury statement, and the Ministry of Justice is charged with razing the inconvenient legal \"barriers\". Liam Byrne MP, a true believer, is minister for \"e-Borders\" (that is, spying on travellers), and continually links immigration fears with the \"need\" for an ID scheme. Euthanasia for a wasteful, late project would be saleable. But no: specification problems are covered up with a technology review that - coincidentally, no doubt - pushes the time when Auntie Elsie will be summoned for fingerprinting safely beyond the next general election. Softly, softly, the Home Office will creep up on citizens, while using uncomplaining and disregarded foreigners to try out all the procedures. Had the PM wished to smother the babe, not kiss it, he could have done so in a number of ways: \u2022 Chancellor Brown set up the Public Private Forum on Identity Management in July 2006. It was due to report in April 2007, but we have heard nothing yet. It could present the majority view of IT experts that the Home Office central verification model is crazy, making Brown look both collegiate and technologically informed. \u2022 The Identity and Passport Service could have disappeared in the Home Office reorganisation of July 2007, as quietly as it appeared on April 1 last year. \u2022 The interrogation of new passport applicants could have been dropped over the summer, avoiding some deeply embarrassing advertising, and saving millions spent on interview centres - infrastructure for the ID scheme, dressed up as anti-fraud. \u2022 Procurement could have been postponed (yet again) with no big press stories. No law says the scheme need be in place by any given time. Rather, delays are made a pretext to go on about immigration, and talk up terrorism again, as justification. \u2022 He could have called an election, and claimed a mandate to scrap the scheme. (Chutzpah required.) \u2022 He could have used his recent \"British liberty\" speech to declare he cares about real privacy. On the contrary; his text seemed to be the words of Philip Gould: \"Identity cards represent the future: a new kind of freedom and a new kind of identity.\" If you are a Labour voter, then pray that tomorrow Her Majesty will announce that her government will repeal the Identity Cards Act and consider measures to restrict data-sharing between public authorities. But don't bet on it.",
  "title": "Disaster on the cards",
  "lead": "Guy Herbert: Gordon Brown has pushed the issue of ID to centre stage, so if it turns out to be his downfall he will only have himself to blame.",
  "tags": [
    "politics/gordon-brown",
    "politics/idcards",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2007/nov/05/disasteronthecards",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}