{
  "content": "The World Economic Forum has launched a number of new several social media tools and is inviting web users to discuss key issues on the economy, US politics, business ethics and the environment in advance of its annual meeting in Davos-Klosters next month. WEF will be coordinating discussion on Twitter, Facebook, MySpace and an OpenForum wiki, as well as a photo group on Flickr and videos on the WEF website. Press conferences are being broadcast live through Mogulus and Qik. The forum has also opened a YouTube channel for the second year and will pick some of the most popular comments to be broadcast during sessions at next year's event, from 28 January to 1 February. WEF's social media initiative builds on the YouTube channel run last year, which recorded more than 5m video views in the six weeks leading up to the 2007 WEF forum, and drew responses from Israeli president Shimon Peres and former US secretary of state Henry Kissinger, who responded to questions at the Google-owned video-sharing website's stand in Davos. This year WEF will also pick one contributor to attend the forum in person, judging videos by the numbers of views they draw, their originality and creativity, and by how well they answer one of four key questions. Users are being asked: how confident they feel about global growth in 2009; to what extent environmental issues will be sidelined by the economic crisis; what their expectations are of incoming US president Barack Obama's administration; and whether company executives should abide by a similar code of ethics to lawyers and doctors. The successful contributor will be invited to attend the WEF forum early next year with all expenses paid and will cover the event as a citizen reporter, posting coverage on the YouTube Davos channel. WEF's social media project is the latest in a series of initiatives by YouTube as it focuses on more heavyweight political events. The site ran a debate earlier this year with CNN in which 2,300 video questions were sent to Democrat candidates for the presidential nomination, while the equivalent Republican debate attracted 4.49 million viewers to CNN. \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "World Economic Forum launches social media initiative",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/youtube",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "politics/politics",
    "business/davos",
    "business/business",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "The World Economic Forum has a number of new social media tools and is inviting web users to discuss key world issues in advance of its annual meeting in Davos-Klosters next month. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "media/2008/dec/15/digitalmedia-youtube",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}