{
  "content": "Times editor James Harding cut a sorry figure at the Leveson inquiry today. He had to admit that he had paid \"insufficient attention\" to an instance of illegal email hacking carried out by one of his paper's former reporters. It was embarrassing to watch him field persistent questions over the incident as he tried to explain his lack of knowledge about the matter. The hacking occurred in 2009 when the reporter, Patrick Foster, was seeking to discover the identity of a police blogger known as Nightjack. By hacking into emails, Foster managed to \"out\" DC Richard Horton of Lancashire constabulary. Horton subsequently took legal action to protect his identity by seeking an injunction. At the high court hearing, The Times did not disclose to the judge, Mr Justice Eady, the method Foster had used to obtain his identity. So Eady tried the case on the basis that Horton's identity had been \"deduced\" from legitimate public sources. Harding told the inquiry that he had now written to Eady to apologise for not having disclosed that The Times had hacked Nightjack's email account. He also apologised to Horton, saying: \"I am sure that Mr Horton and many other people expect better of The Times. So do I.\" For an editor of The Times to climb down in public in such a manner was extraordinary. It cannot do anything other than affect his credibility and, by implication, that of his paper. By far the most damning revelation was that, on the eve of the high court case, Harding was copied into an email - sent by the paper's then legal manager Alastair Brett - that detailed Foster's hacking activities. Harding said it was lengthy and he did not read it. He didn't even know the matter was to go before the high court. Indeed, he explained that he didn't really grasp all of the details until last week. It is extraordinary to think that a newspaper editor remained in such ignorance for so long about such a crucial and sensitive matter, especially given the huge publicity following the hacking revelations at another News International paper, the News of the World Harding emerges from the whole business in a poor light. If News Corp is serious about cleaning house, then his job could be in serious jeopardy. Full disclosure: Patrick Foster has subsequently written as a freelance for The Guardian and Daily Telegraph",
  "title": "Times editor embarrassed by having to issue hacking apologies",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/jamesharding",
    "media/thetimes",
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/news-corporation",
    "technology/email",
    "technology/hacking",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "law/lord-justice-leveson"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade watches as James Harding fields a series questions about why he knew so little of his reporter's illegal activities",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2012/feb/07/jamesharding-thetimes",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}