{
  "content": "It is one year since the European Court of Justice ruled that citizens have the right to request that Google remove links to information about them if these are out of date, misreprentative or irrelevant. But some of the world's most expert academics claim that Google has not been transparent enough in how it is responding to requests for delisting, and 80 academics from around the world have written to the corporation demanding more transparency about its processes. Here is the full text of the open letter, also published on Medium today: What we seek Aggregate data about how Google is responding to the more than 250,000 requests to delist links, thought to contravene data protection laws, from name search results. We should know if the anecdotal evidence of Google's process is representative: What sort of information typically gets delisted (e.g., personal health) and what sort typically does not (e.g., about a public figure), in what proportions and in what countries? Why it's important Google and other search engines have been enlisted to make decisions about the proper balance between personal privacy and access to information. The vast majority of these decisions face no public scrutiny, though they shape public discourse. What's more, the values at work in this process will/should inform information policy around the world. A fact-free debate about the RTBF is in no one's interest. Why Google Google is not the only search engine, but no other private entity or Data Protection Authority has processed anywhere near the same number of requests (most have dealt with several hundred at most). Google has by far the best data on the kinds of requests being made, the most developed guidelines for handling them, and the most say in balancing informational privacy with access in search. One year ago, the European Court of Justice, in Google Spain v AEPD and Mario Costeja Gonz\u00e1lez, determined that Google and other search engines must respond to users' requests under EU data protection law concerning search results on queries of their names. This has become known as the Right to Be Forgotten (RTBF) ruling. The undersigned have a range of views about the merits of the ruling. Some think it rightfully vindicates individual data protection/privacy interests. Others think it unduly burdens freedom of expression and information retrieval. Many think it depends on the facts. We all believe that implementation of the ruling should be much more transparent for at least two reasons: (1) the public should be able to find out how digital platforms exercise their tremendous power over readily accessible information; and (2) implementation of the ruling will affect the future of the RTBF in Europe and elsewhere, and will more generally inform global efforts to accommodate privacy rights with other interests in data flows. Google reports that it has received over 250,000 individual requests concerning 1 million URLs in the past year. It also reports that it has delisted from name search results just over 40% of the URLs that it has reviewed. In various venues, Google has shared some 40 examples of delisting requests granted and denied (including 22 examples on its website), and it has revealed the top sources of material requested to be delisted (amounting to less than 8% of total candidate URLs). Most of the examples surfaced more than six months ago, with minimal transparency since then. While Google's decisions will seem reasonable enough to most, in the absence of real information about how representative these are, the arguments about the validity and application of the RTBF are impossible to evaluate with rigour. Beyond anecdote, we know very little about what kind and quantity of information is being delisted from search results, what sources are being delisted and on what scale, what kinds of requests fail and in what proportion, and what are Google's guidelines in striking the balance between individual privacy and freedom of expression interests. The RTBF ruling addresses the delisting of links to personal information that is \"inaccurate, inadequate, irrelevant, or excessive for the purposes of data processing\", and which holds no public interest. Both opponents and supporters of the RTBF are concerned about overreach. Because there is no formal involvement of original sources or public representatives in the decision-making process, there can be only incidental challenges to information that is delisted, and few safeguards for the public interest in information access. Data protection authorities seem content to rely on search engines' application of the ruling's balancing test, citing low appeal rates as evidence that the balance is being appropriately struck. Of course, this statistic reveals no such thing. So the sides do battle in a data vacuum, with little understanding of the facts \u2013 facts that could assist in developing reasonable solutions. Peter Fleischer, Google global privacy counsel, reportedly told the 5th European Data Protection Days on 4 May that, \"Over time, we are building a rich program of jurisprudence on the [RTBF] decision.\" (Bhatti, Bloomberg, 6 May). It is a jurisprudence built in the dark. For example, Mr. Fleischer is quoted as saying that the RTBF is \"about true and legal content online, not defamation\". This is an interpretation of the scope and meaning of the ruling that deserves much greater elaboration, substantiation, and discussion. We are not the only ones who want more transparency. Google's own Advisory Council on the RTBF in February 2015 recommended more transparency, as did the Article 29 Working Party in November 2014. Both recommended that data controllers should be as transparent as possible by providing anonymised and aggregated statistics as well as the process and criteria used in delisting decisions. The benefits of such transparency extend to those who request that links be delisted, those who might make such requests, those who produce content that is or might be delisted, and the wider public who might or do access such material. Beyond this, transparency eases the burden on search engines by helping to shape implementation guidelines and revealing aspects of the governing legal framework that require clarification. Naturally, there is some tension between transparency and the very privacy protection that the RTBF is meant to advance. The revelations that Google has made so far show that there is a way to steer clear of disclosure dangers. Indeed, the aggregate information that we seek threatens privacy far less than the scrubbed anecdotes that Google has already released, or the notifications that it is giving to webmasters registered with Google webmaster tools. The requested data is divorced from individual circumstances and requests. Here is what we think, at a minimum, should be disclosed What we seek Categories of RTBF requests/requesters that are excluded or presumptively excluded (e.g., alleged defamation, public figures) and how those categories are defined and assessed. Categories of RTBF requests/requesters that are accepted or presumptively accepted (e.g., health information, address or telephone number, intimate information, information older than a certain time) and how those categories are defined and assessed. Proportion of requests and successful delistings (in each case by % of requests and URLs) that concern categories including (taken from Google anecdotes): (a) victims of crime or tragedy; (b) health information; (c) address or telephone number; (d) intimate information or photos; (e) people incidentally mentioned in a news story; (f) information about subjects who are minors; (g) accusations for which the claimant was subsequently exonerated, acquitted, or not charged; and (h) political opinions no longer held. Breakdown of overall requests (by % of requests and URLs, each according to nation of origin) according to the WP29 Guidelines categories. To the extent that Google uses different categories, such as past crimes or sex life, a breakdown by those categories. Where requests fall into multiple categories, that complexity too can be reflected in the data. Reasons for denial of delisting (by % of requests and URLs, each according to nation of origin). Where a decision rests on multiple grounds, that complexity too can be reflected in the data. Reasons for grant of delisting (by % of requests and URLs, each according to nation of origin). As above, multi-factored decisions can be reflected in the data. Categories of public figures denied delisting (e.g., public official, entertainer), including whether a Wikipedia presence is being used as a general proxy for status as a public figure. Source (e.g., professional media, social media, official public records) of material for delisted URLs by % and nation of origin (with top 5-10 sources of URLs in each category). Proportion of overall requests and successful delistings (each by % of requests and URLs, and with respect to both, according to nation of origin) concerning information first made available by the requestor (and, if so, (a) whether the information was posted directly by the requestor or by a third party, and (b) whether it is still within the requestor's control, such as on his/her own Facebook page). Proportion of requests (by % of requests and URLs) where the information is targeted to the requester's own geographic location (e.g., a Spanish newspaper reporting on a Spanish person about a Spanish auction). Proportion of searches for delisted pages that actually involve the requester's name (perhaps in the form of % of delisted URLs that garnered certain threshold percentages of traffic from name searches). Proportion of delistings (by % of requests and URLs, each according to nation of origin) for which the original publisher or the relevant data protection authority participated in the decision. Specification of (a) types of webmasters that are not notified by default (e.g., malicious porn sites); (b) proportion of delistings (by % of requests and URLs) where the webmaster additionally removes information or applies robots.txt at source; and (c) proportion of delistings (by % of requests and URLs) where the webmaster lodges an objection. As of now, only about 1% of requesters denied delisting are appealing those decisions to national Data Protection Authorities. Webmasters are notified in more than a quarter of delisting cases (Bloomberg, May 6). They can appeal the decision to Google, and there is evidence that Google may revise its decision. In the remainder of cases, the entire process is silent and opaque, with very little public process or understanding of delisting. The ruling effectively enlisted Google into partnership with European states in striking a balance between individual privacy and public discourse interests. The public deserves to know how the governing jurisprudence is developing. We hope that Google, and all search engines subject to the ruling, will open up. Sincerely yours, Ellen P. Goodman Professor Rutgers University School of Law Co-Director Rutgers Institute for Information Policy &amp; Law @ellgood Julia Powles Researcher University of Cambridge, Faculty of Law @juliapowles Database of Academic Commentary Jef Ausloos Researcher KU Leuven, ICRI/CIR \u2013 iMinds Paul Bernal Lecturer in Information Technology, Intellectual Property and Media Law UEA School of Law Eduardo Bertoni Global Clinical Professor, New York University School of Law Director of the Center for Studies on Freedom of Expression and Access to Information \u2013CELE- Palermo University School of Law Reuben Binns Researcher University of Southampton Michael D. Birnhack Professor of Law Tel-Aviv University, Faculty of Law Eerke Boiten Director of Cyber Security Centre University of Kent Oren Bracha Howrey LLP and Arnold, White &amp; Durkee Centennial Professor University of Texas School of Law George Brock Professor of Journalism City University London Sally Broughton Micova LSE Fellow &amp; Acting Director, LSE Media Policy Project London School of Economics and Political Science Ian Brown Professor of Information Security and Privacy University of Oxford, Oxford Internet Institute Robin Callender Smith Professorial Fellow in Media Law, Centre for Commercial Law Studies Queen Mary University of London Caroline Calomme MJur candidate University of Oxford Ignacio Cofone Researcher Erasmus University Rotterdam Julie E. Cohen Mark Claster Mamolen Professor of Law &amp; Technology Georgetown Law Ray Corrigan Senior Lecturer in Maths, Computing and Technology Open University Jon Crowcroft Marconi Professor of Communications Systems University of Cambridge, Computer Laboratory Angela Daly Postdoctoral Research Fellow, Swinburne University of Technology Research Associate, Tilburg University - TILT Richard Danbury Postdoctoral Research Fellow University of Cambridge, Faculty of Law Leonhard Dobusch Assistant Professor on Organization Theory Freie Universitaet Berlin Lilian Edwards Professor of Internet Law University of Strathclyde Niva Elkin-Koren Professor of Law University of Haifa David Erdos University Lecturer in Law and the Open Society University of Cambridge, Faculty of Law Gordon Fletcher Senior Lecturer in Information Systems University of Salford Michelle Frasher Non-resident Visiting Scholar, Fulbright-Schuman Scholar University of Illinois, European Union Center Brett M. Frischmann Professor of Law Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law Martha Garcia-Murillo Professor of Information Studies Syracuse University David Glance Director, UWA Centre for Software Practice University of Western Australia Andres Guadamuz Senior Lecturer in IP Law University of Sussex Edina Harbinja Law Lecturer University of Hertfordshire Woodrow Hartzog Associate Professor, Samford University, Cumberland School of Law Affiliate Scholar, Stanford Law School, Center for Internet &amp; Society Andrew Hoskins Professor University of Glasgow Martin Husovec Legal Advisor, European Information Society Institute Affiliate Scholar, Stanford Law School, Center for Internet &amp; Society Agnieszka Janczuk-Gorywoda Assistant Professor Tilburg University - TILEC Lorena Jaume-Palas\u00ed PhD candidate and Lecturer Ludwig Maximilians University Bert-Jaap Koops Professor of Regulation and Technology Tilburg University - TILT Paulan Korenhof Researcher Tilburg University - TILT Aleksandra Kuczerawy Researcher KU Leuven, ICRI/CIR \u2013 iMinds Stefan Kulk Researcher Utrecht University Rebekah Larsen MPhil candidate University of Cambridge, Judge Business School David S. Levine Associate Professor, Elon University School of Law Visiting Research Collaborator, Princeton Center for Information Technology Policy Affiliate Scholar, Stanford Law School, Center for Internet &amp; Society Michael P. Lynch Professor of Philosophy and Director, Humanities Institute University of Connecticut Orla Lynskey Assistant Professor of Law and Warden, Sidney Webb House London School of Economics and Political Science Daniel Lyons Associate Professor of Law Boston College Law School Ian MacInnes Associate Professor, School of Information Studies Syracuse University Robin Mansell Professor, Department of Media and Communications London School of Economics and Political Science Alan McKenna Lecturer University of Kent Law School Shane McNamee Research Assistant, Research Centre for Consumer Law University of Bayreuth Maura Migliore LL.M. candidate, Centre for Commercial Law Studies Queen Mary University of London Christian Moeller Internet Policy Observatory, Center for Global Communication Studies, Annenberg School for Communication, University of Pennsylvania University of Applied Sciences Kiel Maria Helen Murphy Lecturer in Law Maynooth University Andrew Murray Professor of Law London School of Economics and Political Science John Naughton Professor, Wolfson College University of Cambridge Abraham Newman Associate Professor, School of Foreign Service Georgetown University Kieron O'Hara Senior Research Fellow, Electronics and Computer Science University of Southampton Marion Oswald Senior Fellow, Head of the Centre for Information Rights University of Winchester Pablo A. Palazzi Professor of Law San Andres University Frank Pasquale Professor of Law University of Maryland Carey School of Law Richard J. Peltz-Steele Professor University of Massachusetts Law School Artemi Rallo Constitutional Law Professor and Former Director, Spanish Data Protection Agency Jaume I University Giovanni Sartor Professor of Legal Informatics and Legal Theory European University Institute Evan Selinger Associate Professor of Philosophy Rochester Institute of Technology Sophie Stalla-Bourdillon Associate Professor in IT law University of Southampton Konstantinos Stylianou Fellow, Centre for Technology and Society FGV Direito Rio Dan Jerker B. Svantesson Professor Bond University Faculty of Law Damian Tambini Research Director and Director of the Media Policy Project London School of Economics and Political Science Judith Townend Director, Centre for Law and Information Policy Institute of Advanced Legal Studies Alexander Tsesis Professor of Law Loyola University School of Law Siva Vaidhyanathan Robertson Professor, Department of Media Studies University of Virginia Peggy Valcke Professor of Law, Head of Research KU Leuven - iMinds Alfonso Valero Principal Lecturer, College of Business Law &amp; Social Sciences Nottingham Law School Brendan Van Alsenoy Researcher KU Leuven, ICRI/CIR - iMinds Joris van Hoboken Research Fellow New York University School of Law Asma Vranaki Postdoctoral Researcher, Centre for Commercial Law Studies Queen Mary University of London Kevin Werbach Associate Professor of Legal Studies &amp; Business Ethics University of Pennsylvania, The Wharton School Abby Whitmarsh Web Science Researcher University of Southampton Tijmen Wisman PhD candidate and Lecturer VU University Amsterdam Lorna Woods Professor of Internet Law University of Essex Nicolo Zingales Assistant Professor Tilburg University - TILEC",
  "title": "Dear Google: open letter from 80 academics on 'right to be forgotten'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/right-to-be-forgotten",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "law/law",
    "law/european-court-of-justice",
    "world/europe-news",
    "technology/internet",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Full text of the letter demanding more transparency from Google over how it processes 'right to be forgotten' requests",
  "id": "technology/2015/may/14/dear-google-open-letter-from-80-academics-on-right-to-be-forgotten",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}