{
  "content": "Don't expect Ashton Kutcher to appear in a remake of The Party any time soon. Part of an ad campaign starring the former Mr Demi Moore for the potato chip-style snack Popchips has been yanked over an outcry that a character he portrays is inherently racist. In the campaign, which debuted Wednesday, the Two and a Half Men star appears as four drastcally different characters looking for love. One of them, \"Raj\", is a Bollywood producer played by Kutcher in brown face and stereotypical Indian garb, speaking with a sing-songy accent. The ad, which is equally as offensive for attempting to pass itself off as funny, makes barely any mention of the Popchips product. Three related ads feature Kutcher playing other stereotypes: a Karl Lagerfeld-style fashionista, a stoner named Nigel, and a biker. Outcry in the Indian community was immediate, and it spread from there. Complaints about the ad, which was developed by Popchips with Kutcher and an ad agency named Zambezi, began appearing on the company's Facebook page almost immediately as well as on the brand's Twitter feed. Anil Dash, a tech entrepreneur with considerable reach online, wrote in his blog that the ad is \"a hackneyed, unfunny advertisement featuring Kutcher in brownface talking about his romantic options, with the entire punchline being that he's doing it in a fake-Indian outfit and voice. That's it, there's seriously no other gag.\" He added: \"I can't imagine I have to explain this to anyone in 2012, but if you find yourself putting brown makeup on a white person in 2012 so they can do a bad 'funny' accent in order to sell potato chips, you are on the wrong course. Make some different decisions.\" Multiethnic New York hip-hop group Das Racist also vented online, tweeting directly at Kutcher: Later, they tweeted: \"Hey if you care, call popchips...and register your concern, they got to pull this shit and apologize, that's it.\" A spokesperson for the company initially released a statement defending the campaign \"The new popchips worldwide dating video and ad campaign featuring four characters was created to provoke a few laughs and was never intended to stereotype or offend anyone,\" the statement went. \"At popchips we embrace all types of shapes, flavors and colors, and appreciate all snackers, no matter their race or ethnicity. We hope people can enjoy this in the spirit it was intended.\" But ultimately the company bowed to pressure. The Raj character has been pulled the campaign, which will still go ahead with the other characters. Popchips CEO Keith Belling apologized, writing on his blog: \"I take full responsibility and apologize to anyone we offended.\"",
  "title": "Ashton Kutcher in yet another controversy over 'racist' ad campaign",
  "lead": "The Popchips brand snack pulled part of its campaign after the Two and a Half Men star appears as Indian man in brownface",
  "tags": [
    "media/advertising",
    "film/ashton-kutcher",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "us-news/us-news"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2012/may/03/ashton-kutcher-controversy-ad-campaign",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}