{
  "content": "Facebook face-off Someone whom I have disliked heartily (actually, it borders on hatred) since school - nearly 20 years ago now - has invited me, via Facebook, to be his friend. Should I reject or accept? I'm not normally one for the Socratic method, for within me beats the heart of a tyrant, not a teacher, but let me make an exception here and ask you this: does Facebook have the power to extend your lifespan? If not, do you wish to fill whatever remains of your allotted and already easily inglorious time on this earth with people who enrich and enhance it or with people whose company makes you contemplate the hidden virtues of the murder-suicide pact? Which will drain you of more time and energy - the brief spasm of meta-guilt that attends such cyber-rejection as that you are contemplating, or the nagging reminder of your cowardice and weakness every time you log on and see this person publicly labelled \"friend\" when he is an interloper at best and at worst a sworn enemy? Trust me, miscategorisation, not meta-guilt, is the true thief of time. If you're still undecided - although I can't see how you can be - ask yourself this: can you forgive? Can you forget? Why should you? A comic intervention An argument has raged between me and my boyfriend for three weeks, so please decide for us - who would win a game of chess: Batman or The Beast from X-Men? That there is doubt in your mind proves that you have been confused by Batman's extra-intellectual allure - ie, the fact that he is a bit of a brooding, charismatic sex god and a dollar billionaire who knows his way around a utility belt. He could undoubtedly give you a good night out and seeing-to. But Bruce Wayne is not a genius. He is merely clever enough to employ the right people at Wayne Industries. Whereas over at the Xavier Institute, Dr Hank \"The Beast\" McCoy is both the brains and the brains behind the brains. So the sensible money would be on Hank, except for those who wish to take a punt on events unfolding in such a way that a sudden excess of crypto-simian bloodlust would lead him to screw up the Blumenfeld Gambit. What is it with comic book arguments? I consulted with my own lesser half on this, and he - unable to decide - threw it open to the floor at a dinner party. Thus this conclusion has been distilled from the semi-articulate ramblings of eight people who masquerade as productive members of society by day, but reveal themselves to be an underground conglomerate of DC/Marvel champions after dusk and pudding. Like a pack of rabid dogs, they fell on it, tearing the flesh off the issue in ragged strips and worrying over the carcass long after the hostess had abandoned her weeping pleas and gone to bed. This question not only endangered her marriage, but rendered half of her hitherto closest friendships unworkable, so she would be grateful if you would both consider this answer definitive. If the cap fits ... Can there be any true or lasting harmony between a man who does and a woman who doesn't put the top back on the toothpaste? No. \u2022 Whether you need advice, want to share your own, or disagree with Lucy, post your comments below or email dear.lucy@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Lucy Mangan solves your relationship problems",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/relationships",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": "Someone whom I have disliked heartily has invited me, via Facebook, to be his friend. Should I reject or accept?",
  "id": "lifeandstyle/2009/feb/07/relationships-facebook-comicbook-heroes",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}