{
  "content": "Facebook is notorious for policing what people can and cannot post to its site. The latest controversy \u2013 an apparent change in policy to allow beheading videos to be shared \u2013 is just the most recent in a string of accusations that the site bans things it should allow while allowing things it should ban. Breastfeeding In 2012, Facebook's image censorship guidelines were leaked. They revealed that the site's moderators were told to ban images of breastfeeding if the nipples were exposed, while allowing \"graphic images\" of animals if shown \"in the context of food processing or hunting as it occurs in nature\". At the same time \"deep flesh wounds\" and \"crushed heads/limbs\" were allowed, but pictures of human bodily fluids banned if a person is visible. And semen cannot be shown anywhere. Mothers were not surprised to hear that Facebook banned images of breastfeeding, because the site had gained notoriety for marking such pictures as inappropriate. \"A mother who is told by Facebook that her breastfeeding photos have been removed because her nipples were showing is quite likely to be humiliated, upset and one step closer to giving up on breastfeeding,\" said Rowan Davies. But recently, the site appears to have changed its tune. Its community standards now say that it aspires \"to respect people's right to share content of personal importance, whether those are photos of a sculpture like Michelangelo's David or family photos of a child breastfeeding.\" Violence against women Even while Facebook was removing images of breastfeeding for explicit content, the site was being accused of moving far too slowly to remove pages which glorified violence against women. A page of violent jokes about abuse of female marines, for example, stayed up for three years. Even when it was removed, it was because the administrators were using fake accounts, rather than for violating the site's rules against bullying or hate speech. In May, the site came under more fire for blocking the administrator of an Australian feminist page after she posted a picture protesting the site's double standards. \"My problem is that when we report things like violence against women or sexism against women or misogyny against women, they just say it's totally fine,\" said Jenna Price, co-founder of the Destroy the Joint group. The same month, the site relented in the face of calls from over a hundred advocacy groups, and updated its policies on hate speech. \"We need to do better \u2013 and we will,\" the company said in a statement. Political protest Facebook's event tools are extremely useful for arranging political protests, but the site has been known to interfere in what users can promote. In 2011, the page for UK Uncut was deactivated, along with a number of other groups including Chesterfield Stop the Cuts, Tower Hamlet Greens, and the London Student Assembly. A Facebook spokeswoman \"explained that the profiles were suspended because they had not been registered correctly and denied that the removal of pages was politically motivated\", reported Shiv Malik at the time. In 2007, advertisers including Vodafone pulled their ads from the site in protest at its refusal to remove groups promoting the BNP. Even then, Facebook's terms of service banned users from sharing content which was \"harmful, threatening, unlawful \u2026 inflammatory \u2026 hateful, or racially, ethnically or otherwise objectionable\", but the site dealt with material posted on the groups' pages in a piecemeal manner.",
  "title": "Facebook's changing standards: from beheading to breastfeeding images",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "lifeandstyle/breastfeeding"
  ],
  "lead": "Latest controversy about what the social networking site will or won't allow its users to share has echoes of previous rows",
  "id": "technology/2013/oct/22/facebook-standards-beheading-breastfeeding-social-networking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}