{
  "content": "Tweeting about sexism could improve women's wellbeing, according to a new study published in the British Journal of Social Psychology. The study suggests that a sense of \"collective action\" may be at the root of the benefits. Participants were divided into groups: some were asked to tweet publicly, some privately and some not to tweet at all. According to the abstract, \"only public tweeters showed decreasing negative affect and increasing psychological wellbeing, suggesting tweeting about sexism may serve as a collective action that can enhance women's wellbeing\". Since launching the Everyday Sexism Project in 2012, I've seen first-hand the positive impact that sharing stories via social media can have. I've seen women tweet their experiences of street harassment and receive support, understanding and solidarity from others all over the world. I've seen a woman tweet a story of workplace discrimination and receive a reply from an HR manager in a different city, offering to lend their expertise to help. I've received messages from men explaining that they've come across these tweets unexpectedly, and feel that their eyes have been opened to a problem they hadn't previously been aware of. So the results of this study do not come as a surprise to me. But they may come as a surprise to those who argue that using social media to try to advance social justice amounts to lazy \"clicktivism\" by futile \"keyboard warriors\". It is often argued that the recent wave of online feminism is somehow lessened by its medium, or that sharing experiences online weakens victims, giving them an \"easy\" way out instead of reporting incidents elsewhere. This line of thought fundamentally fails to recognise the very nature of gender inequality, which is often subtle, cumulative and deeply ingrained. Not every instance of everyday sexism is something that could be reported elsewhere, but having a forum to share these grievances can help victims to take back a sense of power and control \u2013 a sense of protest over powerlessness. Don't underestimate the catharsis and empowerment that can come simply from telling your story and having it accepted and believed, in a world where it is so often ignored or brushed off. Those who argue that sharing these stories online prevents justice being done couldn't be more wrong; indeed, the opposite is true. We live in a world in which many victims of sexual violence or discrimination are made to feel guilty, or blamed for their ordeals, or simply do not believe they will be taken seriously. It is this that holds them back from reporting, not the fact that an online forum is available to share their experiences. The women who share their stories online aren't doing it instead of an official report they would otherwise have made; they are doing it to break what would previously have been silence. Hundreds explicitly mention in their tweets or posts that they have never felt able to share their story with anyone before \u2014 even partners or family \u2014 let alone reporting it to the police. What's more, a great number of women have written in to Everyday Sexism to reveal that they have found the courage to report an assault to the police, or workplace harassment to their employer, precisely because the stories of other women online have given them the strength to realise they are not alone, and that they have the right to stand up. One student told me that it was only after seeing a feminist video shared on Twitter that she realised what she had experienced could be classified as sexual assault. A runner wrote that when a man assaulted her in the street, it was the other women's stories she had read online that gave her the strength to stop, take down his car number plate and report him to the police. A teacher wrote that after she shared the stories with the girls in her class, they started their own feminist society and began to stand up to sexism at school. What happens online doesn't stay online. Its impact can be far wider. Of course, social media isn't perfect \u2013 perhaps no single form of activism is. For a start, it excludes those without access to the internet or electronic devices, which is a major problem, so it needs to be used in conjunction with other efforts. In addition, social media users posting on topics such as sexism may face vitriolic abuse from trolls. But its capacity to spread an idea to millions of people around the world is undeniable and unique, as hashtags such as #YesAllWomen, #YouOKSis and #WhyIStayed have proved. And while activism shouldn't start and end with the internet, the point is that different methods can combine together to effect change. Social media can be one starting point from which wider efforts grow. At Everyday Sexism, for example, we take many of the stories shared with us online and use them to create real change offline; using them to start conversations around consent and healthy relationships in schools, for example. That way, those who might not have accessed the project online are still included through outreach in the community. We use the thousands of entries we receive from women in the workplace to provide politicians and businesses with an idea of the kind of abuses women are still facing in their careers, from maternity discrimination to sexual assault. We used the stories we had received from women on public transport to inform our work with the British Transport Police on Project Guardian, which included the retraining of 2,000 members of staff around victim-centred principles, and has raised reporting of sexual offences on London transport by 35%. Writing a tweet isn't the same as going on a march, or writing to a member of parliament, but it is valuable in its own right. As we battle to shift deeply ingrained sexist norms, it matters that millions of people are able to stumble across the feminist message and see those norms challenged on social media. It is a new way to reach those who might not ever deliberately seek out the message elsewhere. Just as it is frustrating to see feminists constantly told that they are fighting the \"wrong\" battles, it is equally reductive to suggest they shouldn't be using the \"wrong\" platforms. Why shouldn't 21st-century feminism make use of every tool at its disposal?",
  "title": "Sharing stories of sexism on social media is 21st-century activism",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/women",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "world/gender",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "A new study shows that tweeting about sexism can improve wellbeing. So can we finally stop criticising 'clicktivism' and 'keyboard warriors', and recognise the value of online feminism?",
  "id": "lifeandstyle/womens-blog/2015/feb/06/sharing-stories-of-sexism-on-social-media-is-21st-century-activism",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}