{
  "content": "The report of Sir Christopher Rose, who holds the post of the chief surveillance commissioner, is out this week. Unfortunately it makes less interesting reading than it might, because as a report to the prime minister it is censored before publication. However, this year's remarks on the failings of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (RIPA) merit close examination. Today's news headlines focus on the fact that Rose, a retired senior judge, thinks councils in particular are exceeding their powers. He says: my inspections continue to discover some instances where local authority authorising officers have granted authorisations for purposes other than those which are now available to them. That chimes very well with the media's simplistic theme of \"council snoopers\", and the tenor of the cosmetic consultation exercise just closed by the Home Office \u2013 which concentrated on local authority powers to the exclusion of a broader discussion of the legislation. Yet Rose's criticisms run deeper than that. Though his brief is the working of the law as it is, he shows up the defects of principle in RIPA. Charitably, the commissioner is willing to suggest that inconsistencies and changes in the powers available may confuse authorising officers into exceeding their powers; that the design of forms, software or operating procedures, or clumsy guidance, may be at fault. His report says: Examples are invaluable in training but experience gleaned from very many inspections shows that examples given in handbooks tend to be inflexibly applied, leading to a wrong conclusion which consideration of the specific facts of the case would have avoided. Sometimes it just isn't working at all \u2013 he refers to \"those conducting covert surveillance basing their activity on what was requested rather than on what was specifically authorised\" Rose's problems broadly amount to one thing. Authorising officers are bureaucrats and policemen operating in private within their organisations. RIPA presupposes they will reason independently and act like judges in court. They don't. Surprise. And (in his measured way) the commissioner expresses alarm at the instrumental approach of the Home Office to law. On the consultation: \"the way in which this question is framed reveals an objective which concerns me. It should not be acceptable that the use of covert powers is made 'easy' for any public authority.\" It is a cliche of journalism that these are \"terror powers\" that are too broadly applied, but RIPA arose directly out of the Human Rights Act. Surveillance of various kinds is potentially a violation of the privacy rights of article 8, so the Human Rights Act opened up the possibility of challenging the substance of covert action and in consequence exposed its mechanisms too. That is anathema to the authoritarian tradition of absolute secrecy in security matters. RIPA was always intended as a procedural figleaf to keep under cover what had been under cover before. It rehearses the Human Rights Act forms \"prescribed by law\" and \"necessary in a democratic society\" and applies them to describe a system of formalities, immune from democratic or legal sanction. We should not be tinkering with such legislation, we should be rewriting it from scratch, defining what is allowed under what circumstances, and with independent scrutiny. Instead of employing high court judges to oversee the procedures adopted by the authorising officers, we should be using them to assess the merits of individual surveillance cases. You want to bug someone? Have a good, specific, reason \u2013 and get a warrant.",
  "title": "Watching the watchers | Guy Herbert",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/surveillance",
    "politics/gordon-brown",
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "world/privacy",
    "society/localgovernment"
  ],
  "lead": "Guy Herbert: News headlines may concentrate on 'council snoopers', but the surveillance watchdog's criticisms run much deeper",
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2009/jul/22/ripa-surveillance-council-snoopers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}