{
  "content": "Twitter had its busiest ever day in the UK yesterday, according to Hitwise, thanks partly to Michael Jackson and the uncertainty surrounding his death. Other sites to benefit included TMZ, which Hitwise says got a 20-fold increase in visits, and the LA Times. My bitly links show 81,509 clicks for the TMZ post, Michael Jackson Dies, and 42,052 for the LA Times story. Not all the sites were able to sustain the spike in traffic, and there were some \"outages\". Many of the people using Google got an error page and the BBC says that Twitter crashed. Well, it didn't crash while I was online, but it certainly slowed to a crawl, and this led to a lot of repetitive posting: people were tweeting stuff that had already been tweeted umpteen times, because long delays meant they hadn't seen what had already been tweeted. If Twitter worked better, the burden might well have been lighter. The problem was beautifully summed up in a tweet by Alex Bellinger Funny how when the real time web breaks news, the news breaks the real time web There was also a small edit war at Wikipedia. I'd guess that some people were certain MJ had died, based on repeats of TMZ's claim, while others wanted official confirmation. That, at least, is what happened on Twitter, and Journalism.co.uk picked up on it, with sample tweets, in Trust 2.0 \u2013 reports of MJ's death are not greatly exaggerated: It was fascinating to watch the Michael Jackson rumours hit Twitter late last night (BST) and the mixed reaction to the initial TMZ.com report. An AOL/Telepictures Productions entertainment news site and renowned for having its finger on the pulse, but not quite big or well-known enough to risk the re-tweet or the MSM endorsement? Should we trust it, should we not? I was one of the more cautious types, and didn't tweet the death until it was confirmed by the LA Times. Ashley Norris (@shinyashley) complained: now sky saying it is official cos LA Times says it - yet won't believe TMZ to which I replied: LA Times story is much more believable than TMZ: look at the factual details, sources, names, addresses, etc - not in TMZ Both pages have been updated, but the original TMZ story contained little detail and a lot of certainty. The LA Times story, by contrast, had a lot of verifiable data such as \"Los Angeles Fire Department Capt Steve Ruda told The Times\" and \"Paramedics were called to a home in the 100 block of Carolwood Drive off Sunset Boulevard\". Ashley replied: very true Jack, but TMZ very rarely gets gets it wrong Fine. I've nothing against TMZ (from the Thirty-Mile Zone around Hollywood), and I've written about it in my weekly Netbytes column. But saying \"Michael Jackson Dies\" isn't reporting. The Chicago Tribune summed it up thusly: Gossip site TMZ.com, owned by Time Warner, was out in front with Jackson news and digital-era pipelines spread the word, as has happened before with other major celebrity news stories. But it was old media stalwarts that did the heavy lifting, with giants such as The Associated Press and the Web site of the L.A. Times, sister paper of the Chicago Tribune, reporting the fastest, most credible information on the emergency call for paramedics and ultimately his death. Well, we would say that, wouldn't we? But it reminds me that my old maths and physics teachers would not have given me any marks at all for simply writing in the answer, even if my answer was correct. They would, however, give me lots of marks for my correct approach to solving a problem, even if a silly arithmetical error meant the final answer was wrong. Reporting isn't a science. However, I still think it benefits from the advice drummed into me in my school days: \"Show your working!\"",
  "title": "Michael Jackson, the Twitter effect, and the 'science' of reporting",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "music/michaeljackson",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "The untimely death of Michael Jackson had a huge impact on parts of the web, and perhaps also highlighted one of the differences between blogging and reporting",
  "id": "technology/blog/2009/jun/26/michaeljackson-twitter-blogs-reporting",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}