{
  "content": "The adoption by Madonna of the Malawian baby David Banda last week was big news. Madonna made no secret of her wish to open up her home and \"help one child escape an extreme life of hardship, poverty and, in many cases, death\". But what was surprising was not the story itself but the way that the media published photographs of the child with huge prominence. A decade ago, celebrities and their children playing on a beach was exactly the sort of happy shot that picture editors wanted in their papers. But the arrival of a privacy law in the UK, and the Data Protection Act, stopped such images. The Press Complaints Commission code of conduct specifically states that editors must not use the fame, notoriety or position of a parent as sole justification for publishing details of a child's private life, and that a child under 16 must not be photographed on issues involving their welfare unless a parent consents. The nanny taking the child through Heathrow was not keen to have David photographed as he was shielded by police and bodyguards and his face was covered with a coat. In Malawi, however, Madonna had carried David on her back, apparently less concerned by photographic intrusion. In its case law the PCC makes it clear that consent from a parent has to be obtained and if not, the result is a straightforward breach of clause six (children) of the code. The courts are also prepared to protect children, expressing approval of the European jurisprudence that culminated in the Princess Caroline of Monaco decision - that the privacy of her family life should not be invaded by the media. Broadcasters too are required to pay particular attention to the privacy of people under 16, with Ofcom emphasising that privacy is not lost because of the fame or notoriety of parents. Newspaper images of the children of celebrities have provoked litigation. Ewan McGregor, for example, sued when photographs of his young children on a beach were published. The media have responded by routinely pixelating the faces of children where they want to show the celebrity parents. They take a different approach, however, to public events such as film premieres, where celebrities choose to put their children on show. Madonna and Guy Ritchie may allow their new child to continue to grow up in the media spotlight but if not, and the media interest continues, the courts will offer protection. If the family do not trust the media to respect the right of a child to have a private life, they could consider obtaining a wide-ranging \"Mary Bell\" court order, created to protect a juvenile who had killed children but subsequently used to protect the murderers of James Bulger and, more recently, Maxine Carr. The order bans the revelation of any information about the person - what they look like, where they are, what they are called now. Breach the order and an editor risks jail. Young David's new parents are fantastically rich, and if pictures and knowledge of his whereabouts were in the public domain it would not take the brightest of kidnappers to spot a Malawian boy at a posh London school. If press interest continues, a court may also be persuaded that the highly political issue of western celebrities taking children from developing countries has prompted, and will continue to prompt, such global intrusion that, without protection, David will never be able to grow up in peace. It may be that the regulators can protect David, but if it can be shown that they have failed, the courts have indicated a willingness to protect the private lives and safety of youngsters. \u00b7 Duncan Lamont is a media partner at City solicitors Charles Russell LLP",
  "title": "Even Madonna's adopted baby has privacy rights",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/medialaw",
    "music/madonna",
    "music/music",
    "culture/culture",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "Photos of the popstar's son have been splashed all over the papers. But David has the right to grow up in peace, however famous his parents, says Duncan Lamont",
  "id": "media/2006/oct/23/privacy.mondaymediasection",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}