{
  "content": "Paul Dacre, the lord chief justice, and executives from Twitter and Google are expected be asked to give evidence to the parliamentary committee looking into privacy injunctions, as work on setting up the body created by David Cameron last month finally begins to move forward. Those who are expected to sit on the committee say they want to call newspaper editors, including the Daily Mail's Dacre, judges and technology companies to public hearings \u2013 and there is even hope that it may prove possible to ask one of the celebrities involved in the injunction battle \"to add to the gaiety of proceedings\". However, while the prospect of Ryan Giggs giving evidence may be attractive to the media, it is highly unlikely that he or anybody else locked in an injunction battle would be willing or able to appear before the inquiry. Ordinary Commons select committees do not have the power to compel witnesses to give evidence, while the person embroiled in a court action is unlikely to appear before parliament, a forum that some members have used to reveal the identity of those taking out privacy injunctions. Prospective committee members have also discussed whether it would be possible to ask Mr Justice Eady or other serving judges to discuss their privacy rulings, but constitutional protocol dictates that it is only the most senior judges who discuss matters of public policy. Last month the lord chief justice, Lord Judge, complained of the \"misuse of modern technology\" by people circulating the names of public figures including Giggs who had obtained privacy injunctions. His intervention means that he is expected to help the parliamentary committee with its work. The body is expected to be composed equally of MPs and peers, but even though its creation was announced more than a fortnight ago, little work has been done on agreeing its membership because parliament has been in recess. Whips from all parties are now determining who will sit on the body, with its membership drawn from MPs on the culture, media and sport and justice select committees. John Whittingdale, the Conservative MP who is chairman of the culture, media and sport committee, is one of the few people confident that he will sit on the body. The announcement that the prime minister wanted to set up the committee was made by the attorney general, Dominic Grieve, in response to an urgent question asked by Whittingdale on 23 May. It is understood that the culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, and the justice secretary, Ken Clarke, have agreed on an outline of the terms of reference, which are expected to reiterate that while ministers want a wide-ranging inquiry, they are not keen to introduce a privacy law in response to the committee's work. However, the committee is likely to interpret the terms as it determines appropriately, and prospective members expect to examine the role and effectiveness of the Press Complaints Commission in this area. Cameron has indicated that he would prefer to look again at the role of the PCC, rather than introduce a privacy law. \"We don't want statutory regulation of the press. By all means let's debate it,\" he told Radio 4's Today programme in May. \"But I think there's still more to be done through the Press Complaints Commission.\" The committee is expected to complete its work by the end of the year. \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Privacy committee to grill editors and tech companies",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pauldacre",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "politics/davidcameron",
    "politics/politics",
    "politics/houseofcommons",
    "law/injunctions",
    "law/superinjunctions",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "MPs and peers expected to call newspaper editors, judges and technology companies to public hearings. By Dan Sabbagh",
  "id": "media/2011/jun/08/privacy-committee-to-grill-editors",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}