{
  "content": "Here's how things stand. The follies of the big banks have caused the \u00adsteepest plunge in output since the second world war. The economy is showing signs of stabilisation, owing largely to emergency cuts in interest rates and taxpayers' billions being used to prop up a \u00adfinancial system on the brink of collapse. Unemployment is rising, and it is rising most rapidly for the blameless, not the wretched bankers. Even before the recession began, incomes for those at the bottom of the pile were below the level of three years ago. The longer Labour has been in power the slower incomes have grown. Inequality is higher than under Thatcher. Child poverty has increased in the past three years and the public finances are shot to pieces. According to the prime minister, we are now living in a different world. The crisis of neo-liberalism has ushered in a new age in which there is a new and more important role for the state. That is true, but only up to a point. The state is rather keener on controlling the people than the markets. The evidence for this? Well, in the past month, the Treasury has announced that it is \"not persuaded\" that the most profound financial crisis of the past 100 years should result in reform along the lines of the Glass-\u00adSteagall act of 1933. This is a sensible idea that would cut the banks down to size and create a legal distinction between retail and investment banks. Meanwhile, the government is \u00adpressing ahead with the part-\u00adprivatisation of the Royal Mail and made conditions for financial support for \u00adJaguar Land Rover so tough that they were bound to be rejected. This is not interventionism: it is neo-liberalism lite. The aim, as it has been all the way through this crisis, has been to return to Labour's comfort zone \u2013 the economy as it was before 9 August 2007. In other respects, though, the state has bared its teeth. Labour is ploughing ahead with identity cards; it intends to keep the DNA records of innocent people on its database for up to 12 years; it sanctioned the aggressive policing of the G20 demonstrations. Britain already has more CCTV cameras per head than any other western industrialised country and the weakest laws on privacy and data protection. We have a surveillance society and prisons that are bursting at the seams. Not a problem, some say. Only the guilty have anything to fear from having their details on a DNA database or by having their movements tracked on CCTV cameras. Personal liberty and privacy have to be ceded for the smooth and effective functioning of the state. This is turning the idea of a liberal state on its head. A liberal state demands that its citizens give up only those freedoms that are vital for the benefit of the common weal; it doesn't aggrandise to itself the maximum amount of power and then hand back limited freedoms grudgingly and only when it sees fit. The notion that nobody has anything to fear from a powerful yet well-meaning state has been the cry of the totalitarian down the ages. Today's policy is the polar opposite of what it was in the 1950s and 1960s. Then there were strong curbs on the market \u2013 exchange controls, import controls, credit controls, full employment policies, strong unions, a large state-run sector \u2013 and less interference in the day-to-day life of the individual. The state saw its role as ensuring that people had a job, a decent income and a pension in their old age. It trusted parents to bring up their children and saw no need to employ a small army of professionals to enforce guidelines on smoking, drinking and obesity. Professionals were trusted to do their jobs without onerous, and often ineffective, regulation. It was no golden age: Britain was stuffy, class-bound and riddled with prejudice. Economic inefficiency gave Thatcher plenty to get her teeth into as she set about reversing the post-war orthodoxy. Henceforth, the market would be unshackled but controls on individuals tightened. The costs of this new approach are now apparent. Britain has experienced six successive years in which real incomes have barely grown, and even these modest increases have been concentrated at the very top of the scale. Two-thirds of individuals live in households where the weekly income is lower than the national mean of \u00a3487 a week. The economy grew at a respectable rate during those six years, but most of the fruits of that growth went to capital rather than labour. Britain is a country where millions of workers are employed in insecure jobs, where poverty pay is topped up by means-tested benefits. And where, clearly, the government no longer trusts us to behave properly. Hence the surveillance and the targets for doctors, teachers and the police that manage at one and the same time to be rigid and ineffective. The City, of course, had a special dispensation from all this. It was allowed the benefit of light-touch, even no-touch, regulation. There is little evidence, despite all the bluster about a new age, that this is going to change. We are assured that lessons have been learned and that the 50% tax rate on those earning more than \u00a3150,000 is a sign of the government's get-tough approach with business. But this is window dressing. Real change would involve questioning some of the deep-seated trends of the past 30 years \u2013 the imbalance of power between capital and labour, the declining influence of the trade unions, the concentration of economic power in ever bigger financial and non-financial companies and the impact of globalisation and free trade on those on the lowest incomes. The government's approach is that the changes in the economy over the past three decades were inexorable. But even if ministers thought otherwise, they would still do nothing, since they are true converts to the main tenets of neo-liberalism. And as a result Labour is on course for a crushing defeat. The three years after 2005 saw the economy hum along at about 2.5% a year on average, with house prices surging and the City booming. But it didn't deliver for those in the bottom four-fifths of the income distribution. Little wonder, then, that Labour's old working class support is being lost to the BNP or apathy, and that middle-income voters are swinging back to the Conservatives. Those of a liberal bent are appalled at the authoritarianism that is apparently required to keep the lid on a society where the gap between material desires and weak income growth has for years been bridged only by debt. Professionals loathe the target culture. Only the functionaries of the Big Brother state remain loyal, and even now there are not enough of them. The party's over.",
  "title": "It's not bankers Labour is watching, it's you",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/economics",
    "business/credit-crunch",
    "business/recession",
    "business/business",
    "politics/labour",
    "politics/economy",
    "politics/dna-database",
    "politics/politics",
    "world/surveillance",
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "society/poverty",
    "inequality/inequality",
    "society/socialmobility",
    "society/society"
  ],
  "lead": "Larry Elliott: Once the party curbed the market to benefit the people \u2013 now the opposite is true",
  "id": "business/2009/may/10/neo-liberalism-labour-policy-larry-elliott",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}