{
  "content": "1. What your city says about your 'selfies' You thought it wasn't possible to say more about 'selfies', or analyse them any further. And you were wrong. The website Selfiecity compiles the investigations of a team led by Dr Lev Manovich, professor of computer science at the City University of New York. They have analysed 3,200 Instagram selfies shared in New York, Moscow, Berlin, Bangkok and Sao Paulo (640 from each city), and presented the results in a group of glossy interactives. Have a play. Among the findings are facts like: people take fewer selfies than is often assumed; most people taking them are quite young, with Bangkok being the youngest city (average 21.0 years) and New York the oldest (25.3); and people taking 'selfies' in Bangkok and Sao Paulo smile the most, while those in Moscow do it the least. 2. Cairo: the myth of a city on the verge of explosion Any report about Cairo invariably begins with a description of Cairo as \"teeming, noisy, dusty and polluted\", a massive city full of street vendors and parked cars on the pavements, and pedestrians walking amongst traffic, writes Jon Argaman in Jadaliyya. Numbers back this up: in 2012, Egypt's national statistics agency estimated Cairo's population density at 45,000 per square kilometre, roughly 1.5 times that of Manhattan. Argaman argues this has seeded the widespread idea that Egypt must be uncrowded for it to be sustainable, and that this assumption has allowed state officials to disengage from the problems and concerns of the city and the people who live in it. Read the piece for an analysis of how this vision perpetuates social inequalities and, instead of tackling them, envisages poor people living somewhere else \u2013 namely, the desert. 3. City data and the counterintuitive nature of suicide A group of computational anthropologists, led by Hygor Piaget Melo at the Federal University of Cear\u00e1 in Brazil, have studied the rate at which homicides, suicides and deaths from traffic accidents increase against the population size for all cities in Brazil and each county in the US, as this Technology Review article explains. The results have been surprising. Murders increase with population, so big cities have more per head than smaller ones. The rate of deaths from traffic accidents is the same regardless of the size of the city. And, most striking of all, the number of suicides per capita is higher in smaller cities. One reason proposed is the social nature of suicide; that \"the kind of emotional intensity associated with suicide might dissipate more easily in big cities, where there are more people to shoulder the burden\". 4. The worse the weather, the higher the tips Bad weather can have numerous effects on our health, mood, wellbeing and even voting behaviour. But a new study has concluded that unfavourable weather conditions make New Yorkers give better tips on restaurant deliveries. GrubHub Seamless, the food-delivery company, compared tips during the week of the infamous \"polar vortex\" in January to other weekdays in December. This New Yorker interactive explores how the temperature change affected tips in each district of the Big Apple. 5. Minibuses in Addis Ababa: Ethiopia in a nutshell If our article on blue mini-buses in Addis Ababa left you with an appetite for more, this piece is an interesting exploration of why this mode of transport encapsulates so well the character of not just the Ethiopian capital, but the entire country. \"You can find them everywhere \u2013 except when you desperately need one \u2013 and nearly everybody uses them,\" writes Yves Stranger, who explains what a journey in one of these blue vehicles is like. \"There, in the cramped laboratory-like space of a minibus, you will see all of the intricacies of society laid out, in deep play.\" 6. Unusual Tokyo Japanese photographer and computer software engineer Takashi Kitajima has created a series of hypnotising shots of his hometown, Tokyo. Playing with light and blurring effects, the results are stunning. An unusual view of city lights in one of the world's biggest metropolises. 7. The economic weight of big cities, in one map Finally, a glossy image: this map, created by Reddit user Alexandr Trubetskoy and picked up by the Washington Post, describes in pictures the importance of US cities in terms of their economic activity. Share your suggestions in the comments section or tell us on Twitter at @guardiancities",
  "title": "City links: the best of the web",
  "lead": "City 'selfies', overcrowding misconceptions and how weather affects New Yorkers' generosity feature among the best city content we've seen online this week",
  "tags": [
    "cities/cities",
    "technology/smartphones",
    "technology/instagram",
    "technology/photography",
    "travel/moscow",
    "travel/berlin",
    "travel/bangkok",
    "travel/saopaulo",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/russia",
    "world/germany",
    "world/thailand",
    "world/brazil",
    "travel/cairo",
    "world/egypt",
    "world/population",
    "world/ethiopia",
    "uk/transport",
    "travel/tokyo",
    "world/japan",
    "artanddesign/photography",
    "technology/flickr",
    "travel/travel-maps",
    "education/economics",
    "business/useconomicgrowth",
    "world/road-transport"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "cities/2014/feb/21/city-links-the-best-of-the-web",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}