{
  "content": "Luca Silvestrini is the sharpest of comic choreographers; his satires on the shallowness and obsessions of the modern world were wickedly honed in works such as Big Sale and Dear Body. In LOL (Lots of Love), he takes on love and the social networks. And what makes this his best creation to date is not only the sparkle of the comedy, but the poignancy with which it is infused. The tone is set by the opening video footage, which shows a gallery of faces all staring at invisible screens, their range of emotional expression weirdly nullified by the identical glazed look in their eyes. They are connected by broadband, but physically in limbo; the world of digital solitude remains the subtext of the show's 70 minutes, even as Protein's six fantastic performers swing into dynamic action. Talking and dancing at high speed, the cast nail, with elegant wit, the language of mailing, messaging and tweeting: spoken monologues are delivered in hectic compressed style, complete with emoticons, OMGs, kisses and trails of dots (Fernanda Prata wonders whether the dots mean she has \"so much more to say\", or \"nothing at all\".) Duets are fashioned out of the same exclamatory dynamics \u2013 short violent phrases, abrupt full stops, trailing non sequiturs. In one ensemble, Silvestrini orchestrates a whole dance out of the physical equivalent of tweeting, poking and winking. It's human communication on virtual speed, exhilarating and funny, but the sadness begins to surface when the focus of the piece shifts to the world of internet dating. Women struggle to assert their personalities through the brutal conventions of date-site profiles. Sally Marie, who can evoke doomed hopefulness more agonisingly than any performer I know, is a woman dreaming her life away as she tries to snare the email attention of strangers. Even when real dates take place, the wannabe lovers never get beyond ticking boxes \u2013 the fashion sense, body type and consumer choices \u2013 of their dates. You sense them longing to get back to the safety of their screens. That longing is beautifully intensified by the insistent tapping of computer keyboards in Andy Pink's score, and by Silvestrini's handling of space. Within the choreography he creates invisible barriers around the dancers \u2013 as if they have never quite left their lonely bedsits or their desk in the internet cafe. And that sadness comes into piercing focus in the final scene when Kip Johnson \u2013 lanky, innocent and lost \u2013 wanders on stage clutching a bundle of tangled wires: his social network, his comfort blanket. Wistfully, he tries to mould the tangle into the shape of a real person, one he can hold and embrace. It could be a moment of easy sentiment, but actually it makes you want to weep.",
  "title": "LOL (Lots of Love) - review",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "stage/dance",
    "stage/stage",
    "culture/culture",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "Talking and dancing at high speed, the cast nail, with elegant wit, the language of mailing, messaging and tweeting, writes Judith Mackrell",
  "id": "stage/2011/jan/31/lol-lots-of-love-review-silvestrini",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}