{
  "content": "The decision to keep the identities of two police officers a secret after they had sex with prostitutes while on duty has been described as disgraceful. Despite new Home Office rules calling for police disciplinary hearings to be held in public, two independent chairs have been able to keep the Merseyside police officers' identities secret, citing \"exceptional circumstances\". After an application for an injunction preventing the naming of one of the officers was upheld on Friday, the former Liverpool MP, Peter Kilfoyle, said it was a disgrace that officers who were bringing their office into disrepute were allowed to remain anonymous. \"It is astounding that this has happened again, and it is just another example of the growing disregard for transparency in public life,\" he said. \"The rules should be that, unless there are really compelling reasons, any kind of public hearing, public information or information in the public sector ought to be made available as widely as possible. I think it bedevils the whole of society at the moment.\" He added: \"Where those reasons are compelling I would want an explanation. If that is not forthcoming then whoever makes those decisions is leaving themselves wide open to criticism and dismay. That kind of transparency is a principle of justice and justice needs not only to be done, but to be seen to be done.\" Earlier, the royal courts of justice upheld an application for an injunction preventing the identity of one of the officers being revealed. The application was made by the Police Federation against Trinity Mirror, the publishers of the Liverpool Echo. The officer, who has resigned, was allowed to remain anonymous during the misconduct panel hearing in December. He faced allegations of having sex with a prostitute in a police car on 28 July and 1 November 2015; and of visiting a sex worker in a force vehicle but not of receiving \"sexual services\" on 3 and 28 September. While the details of the case were made public, for the first time since the legislation was brought in to support misconduct hearings being held in public, the meeting was held behind closed doors. Merseyside police said the anonymity and privacy was due to \"exceptional circumstances\" surrounding the case, with the decision ultimately being made by Chief Constable Peter Vaughan of South Wales police. At the time a spokesman for Merseyside police said: \"In exceptional cases, the Police (Conduct) Regulations 2012 and the associated Home Office guidance allows for the chair, either of his own volition or on application of either the appropriate authority or the officer concerned, to place appropriate restrictions on the hearing.\" Earlier this week another Merseyside officer was sacked after it was found he met a prostitute in December 2014 and then falsified a national intelligence report in an attempt to cover it up. In February 2015 he was found to have engaged in sexual acts with a prostitute, again while on duty. In a pre-hearing order, the chairwoman, barrister Louise Brandon, said the officer would remain anonymous following written representations seeking \"a departure from the fundamental principle of open justice\". She ruled: \"I have concluded that it is necessary and proportionate to anonymise the name of the officer and that this necessity outweighs the public interest in naming the officer in the course of the hearing and the notice.\" The Liverpool Echo reported that the officer had been diagnosed with depression and anxiety, and that his identity was concealed because of concerns about his welfare. In March 2015, the home secretary, Theresa May, announced that police disciplinary hearings would be held in public and led by legally qualified chairs. She said the reforms would overhaul the police complaints and disciplinary system to ensure it was \"accountable, transparent and easy for the public to understand\". The Guardian has written to Brandon asking her to review her ruling. A Home Office spokesperson said on Friday: \"The home secretary has been clear that police disciplinary hearings should be held in public, unless there are exceptional circumstances. Our published guidance on public hearings includes factors the chairperson may take into account in making their decision. These include, for example, whether holding a hearing in public would jeopardise or interfere with any criminal proceedings.\"",
  "title": "Secrecy for police who had sex with prostitutes on duty 'disgraceful'",
  "lead": "Former Liverpool MP says decision to hide officers' identities shows growing disregard for transparency in public life",
  "tags": [
    "uk/police",
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/liverpool",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "uk-news/2016/mar/04/secrecy-for-police-who-had-sex-with-prostitutes-on-duty-disgraceful",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}