{
  "content": "You walk to the post office. Your envelope is left unsealed, carries the recipient's address, your own address and the letter's topic - as regulations dictate. The assistant checks your identity card, and stamps a postmark that includes his staff number, the precise time and the date. Then he writes your identity card number on the envelope, photocopies it for the files, and finally allows it to be sent. You walk to the library, where your ID card number and exact time of entry are recorded. You are issued with a special ID. You find a book you'd like to read - locked inside a glass cabinet, like all the others. A librarian records your choice and ID before unlocking the cabinet. You read the book in a cubicle with a video camera recording which pages you see. The time you leave is also recorded. Outside, you see a friend. You call across to her, and she crosses the street to speak to you; so does a policeman. Before you speak, you have to show your identity cards. The officer records both your numbers, your location, and the precise time you start talking. He allows you to speak privately, but waits to record the time you part. All this information is filed and held for periods varying from a few days to several years. If you are suspected of any wrongdoing, your records can be examined by the police, secret services, customs or tax inspectors, who can authorise themselves to do so. You will probably never know if they do. This is not some Orwellian nightmare. It is the reality of how our emails, internet habits and mobile phone usage are logged, analysed and stockpiled in a manner which would provoke outrage if applied to more traditional areas of life. Email is no more private than the heavily recorded letter above; browsing the web involves accepting a regime as strict as the library and our mobile phone calls are as minutely documented as the conversation in the street. This virtual reality is the one we spend much of our time in nowadays. In January 1999, 27% of us had a mobile phone. By May this year, only 32% of adults did not use a mobile. Similarly, almost 50% of households were connected to the internet in February this year, up from 12% three years ago. But electronic systems slough off data like humans slough off skin cells and hair, continually and almost invisibly. Just like DNA, this digital detritus can reveal much about its users. And in Britain in 2002, to own a mobile phone, to send email or to use the internet is, as never before, to put your privacy at the mercy of the state. Since September 11, the government has been pushing through a package of anti-terrorism legislation which targets electronic communications to chip away further at our privacy. Through our ever-growing reliance on mobiles, email and the web, we are unwittingly leaving behind a trail of personal information which will allow the state and its agencies to build up a detailed map of our private lives: our friends and associates (email); our interests (web), even our whereabouts (mobile phone). Internet service providers (ISPs) routinely retain the email recipient's address, the sender's return address and digital location, the subject line and the precise time the email was sent. Email seems so intimate, so private. In fact,your comments are dated, timed, logged - and very easy to forward. When we browse the web, ISPs log the times we go on and off line, the sites we visit and the digital location they allocate us for that session. Freeserve, the UK's largest ISP, keeps all this data for at least seven months. As US academic Charles Sykes says in his book, The End of Privacy: \"The internet has rewritten the rules of private and public life, providing an illusion of privacy in a realm that is actually a fishbowl.\" Mobile phone firms record the time and number of every call we make. That's hardly news: it's on our bills. But they also record who calls us, and when. This data is kept from between six months and six years, depending on the network. O2, for example, now stores it for a minimum of 12 months. Mobile networks also keep records of our approximate locations whenever our phones are switched on by logging the nearest base station. In a city, this is likely to pinpoint us to within a few hundred metres. The next generation of mobile phones, already being tested in some countries, are due to have global positioning system technology built in, accurate to a few metres. We can be forgiven our unfamiliarity with these technologies. The oldest, email, was confined largely to academics until the 1990s. The first modern mobiles appeared in the 1980s. The web was invented in 1990. But the law enforcement and intelligence community was quick to spot their surveillance potential. In August 2000, a classified document, leaked to the Observer, revealed plans for a huge computerised data warehouse, holding the communications records of every UK customer for the previous seven years. At the time, the government said it had no plans to introduce a regime requiring phone and internet companies to retain data for longer than required for their own billing and marketing purposes. Two years on, police and the spies have secured almost everything on their wishlist. The Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa), introduced in 2000, handed them extensive powers to intercept communications. Obtaining the content of phone calls or emails still requires a warrant from the home secretary and can only be done on grounds of national security, investigating serious crime or safeguarding economic wellbeing. However, Ripa allows police, the security services, customs, and the Inland Revenue to access communications records on their own authority for a much broader range of purposes, from national security to the collection of taxes. Then came September 11. With the scales tipped heavily in favour of greater surveillance, ministers abandoned their opposition to blanket communications data retention. Within three months, the electronic surveillance jigsaw was completed. Under the introduction of the Anti-Terrorism Crime and Security Act, telephone and internet companies will stockpile the records of all their customers for long periods. Officers of superintendent or equivalent rank will be able to authorise access to this data on an unlimited number of individuals without need for any judicial or executive warrant, not just for national security cases but also for a range of minor investigations. Critics say these powers will inevitably lead to police conducting \"fishing expeditions\" against innocent citizens. Most of these measures have been introduced with almost no opposition, public or political. But now the first signs of a backlash are emerging. In June, Home Secretary David Blunkett was forced to admit the government had \"blundered\" and \"dug itself into a hole\" after the Guardian revealed plans to extend data retention powers to a vast array of non-police public bodies, including seven Whitehall ministries, all 467 local authorities and 11 quangos. Faced with huge public and press outcry, and growing opposition in both houses of parliament, the Home Office hastily withdrew the plans, although they are due to resurface in some guise this autumn. \"Nobody here saw it coming,\" admits one senior Blunkett aide.\"We thought Ripa was an argument that had been done and dusted.\" Since then, Blunkett's troubles have become much worse. The legality of the entire data snooping framework has been thrown into doubt by legal advice from an eminent QC obtained by the Information Commissioner, the official privacy watchdog. In the opinion of Ben Emmerson, a barrister at Matrix chambers, there was a serious risk that allowing police or any other agency investigating cases unrelated to national security would breach human rights law. Government sources believe the latest rows over Ripa are a lightning rod for unresolved privacy concerns dating back several years. Jack Straw, overseer of the original act, is the subject of coded digs among Blunkett aides irritated at having been left holding the snooping time bomb when it finally exploded. In the meantime, however, Blunkett appears determined to press ahead with constructing his surveillance regime. So the next time you use a phone, send an email or access a website, imagine a camera trained on your screen or your mobile. Perhaps nobody will ever watch the tape. But the camera is live, just the same. \u00b7 SA Mathieson is a freelance technology journalist. Lucy Ward is The Guardian's political correspondent.",
  "title": "Prying eyes",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Introducing the second in our Big Brother series, SA Mathieson and Lucy Ward explain why the state has never been so keen to know our business.",
  "id": "uk/2002/sep/14/privacy.samathieson",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}