{
  "content": "It's unseasonably warm in San Francisco this week. That kind of pervasive heat that keeps you awake til 4am and where you still feel grubby no matter how many cold showers you take. As I write this I'm sitting by an open window, drinking a glass of Diet Coke with enough ice to restock the Antarctic shelf \u2013 and yet still I'm too fucking hot to think straight. And it's not just me. Earlier on, I went for a walk near Dolores Park and noticed a huge line of people snaking around what I assumed was some hot new club. It was only as I got closer that I realised these people \u2013 maybe 100 of them \u2013 were actually queuing out the door of an ice-cream shop, like Soviets queuing for bread. I swear if it doesn't cool down soon, I'm going to organise a Twestival to pay for some ice-cream vans. Part of the problem is that San Francisco isn't generally as warm as other parts of California, and so most people don't have air conditioning. During the cab ride back to my borrowed apartment, the driver \u2013 bless him \u2013 listened to my sweaty British whining about this fact for a good five minutes before shrugging his shoulders and silencing me with one simple argument\u2026 \"Well, it could be worse. You could be in Iraq.\" He had me there. If I were an Iraqi, not having air conditioning would be the least of my problems. The country has been occupied by foreigners for six years, it still doesn't have a truly independent government and now it seems al-Qaida has moved in and started recruiting children. As if things weren't dangerous enough, President Obama has also vowed to withdraw American troops and let the country fend for itself. Not that you can blame him; figures published this week show that since the 2003 invasion, more than 4,200 US military personnel have been killed in the line of duty. So, yes, it would be fair to say that the Iraqi people have more pressing concerns than a lack of air conditioning and the prospect of queuing for an hour to buy Ben and Jerry's. And yet, while many are declaring the invasion of Iraq a failure and characterising America's military withdrawal as a retreat, in reality nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, as we discovered this week, it's simply the start of a bold change in strategy on the part of the US government. The Department of Defense may be cutting and running, but their colleagues over in the State Department are getting ready to pick up the pieces and deliver the one thing post-war Iraq really needs to help it get back on its feet. I'm not talking about clean water or safe streets or bomb disposal dogs \u2013 that's old fashioned thinking. No, the one thing that Iraq really, really needs, according to the State Department\u2026 is Twitter. I am not making this up. The department has just airlifted Twitter's Jack Dorsey along with representatives from Wordpress, Meetup.com, YouTube and Google into Baghdad to discuss how social media can help build Iraq 2.0. Finally, thanks to what I'm already calling \"Operation Fail Whale\", ordinary Iraqis will get access to the clean video streams, flamewars and Lolcats that we in the west take for granted. But while they're surely dancing in the streets of Fallujah at the prospect of being able to follow @oprah, the news presents a real problem for me as a columnist. In fact, it has me totally stumped. How on earth can I find something amusing to say about the American government spending taxpayer dollars to fly the founders of Twitter and Meetup.com into a war zone? What possible comedy could there be in Techcrunch's reporting of the trip under the headline \"Can Silicon Valley Save Iraq?\" I've been sitting at my keyboard, sweating away for hours and I still can't think of a single cynical angle to take on this mission of mercy from the people who brought us kittens on treadmills and the Fail Whale. And so I've decided to admit defeat. Instead, I'm going to take off my snarky hat for once and, with a completely straight face, share with you my predictions for what \u2013 with a little help from the darlings of the social web \u2013 the future might hold for the all-new web-enabled iRaq 2.0. December 2009: Iraq holds its first truly democratic online elections with voters invited to Digg up or down a list of 10 candidates representing politicians from across the country's political spectrum. January 2010: Following a hard-fought campaign by the users of 4Chan, Seth McFarlane is sworn in as president of Iraq, narrowly beating William Shatner and a dog named Dirty Sanchez. March 2010: Iraq hosts its first Tweetup, in a bar just outside the Green Zone. The mood is soured when the attendees are twurdered by a twuicide bomber. May 2010: A new breed of web 2.0 kidnappers begins to emerge, threatening to disrupt the traditional kidnapping industry. Rather than following a ransom model, the new kidnappers release hostages for free, asking only for their name and email address in return. Despite having no revenue strategy whatsoever, market leader Kidnappr quickly signs up over 4 million hostages after \u00fcber-bloggers Robert Scoble and iJustine appear in promotional videos, pleading for their lives. October 2010: AOL buys Kidnappr for $850m. December 2010: Radical Islam in Iraq gains its millionth follower, leading early adopters to declare it \"over\". January 2011: New government installed. February 2011: New government uninstalled after Techcrunch runs a story titled \"Did Iraq just hand over voter data to the RIAA?\" March 2011: In what many assume is a retaliatory attack, Techcrunch's Erick Shonfeld is critically injured by a road-side Googlebomb. May 2011: Iraq publishes its crowdsourced constitution. Controversial additions soon follow, including the first amendment which is simply the word \"first!\" and a freedom of speech amendment which, curiously, is closed to commenters. October 2011: Crowdsourced constitution is deleted after editors decide that it doesn't meet the international community's notability guidelines. Pages dedicated to fictional characters from obscure graphic novels remain. December 2011: Kevin Rose and Alex Albrecht host a live Baghdad edition of Diggnation for an audience of suicide bombers and religious fanatics. Surprisingly, there is no discernible difference between the baying mob of identically-dressed obsessive loons in attendance and the usual Diggnation audience. February 2012: Sharia law finally enters the 21st century when a woman accused of adultery is stoned to death by an angry flashmob. July 2012: The driver of Google's Street View car is accidentally shot dead at an American checkpoint. Burglary rates in Buckinghamshire plummet. August 2012: With sectarian violence still rife and no sign of a sustainable economic model, America announces plans to close Iraq and relaunch it as a Facebook app. September 2012: AOL buys Iraq, which is never heard from again. \u2022 Paul Carr is author of Bringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs at paulcarr.com",
  "title": "Not Safe For Work: How Twitter is going to save Iraq. I mean Ir@. Not.",
  "lead": "Not safe for work: Episode 24 \u2013 Operation Fail Whale \u2013 in which Paul Carr shares his predictions for the brave new web-enabled iRaq 2.0",
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/youtube",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/web20",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/google-street-view",
    "technology/aol"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2009/apr/22/twitter-paul-carr-iraq-prediction",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}