{
  "content": "The tortured tale of George Smith, the former royal valet who claimed to have seen Prince Charles engaged in a sexual act, took a new twist yesterday when a Sunday newspaper induced him to temporarily retract the story in the hope of receiving money to pay off his debts. Mr Smith, a former corporal in the Welsh Guards, and the prince's valet for nine years until being dismissed in 1997, has been relating various claims for several years and last year sold his story to the Mail on Sunday which, it emerged yesterday, paid him \u00a361,000. His story, that he was raped by another royal servant in 1989 and that he witnessed Prince Charles in a sexual incident, has never been verified. The latest sting yesterday was engineered by the Sunday Telegraph whose reporters recorded Mr Smith, 44, a man with a history of treatment for alcohol problems and depression, saying that he liked the idea of a payment to reverse his story. He told them: \"Sounds a good idea, might get me out of my troubles at the moment, because I owe quite a bit of debt as well...if it gets me out of my predicament then I'll say that.\" The story was accompanied by photographs of him taken surreptitiously at a hotel near his home in South Wales. The newspaper said it had had no intention of paying him anything though it admitted it had offered him a \"business deal\" . Within hours, Mr Smith was retracting his retraction. In a statement to the Press Association he admitted being tempted by the offer of payment but decided that he could not have accepted it. He said: \"I was tempted because I am deeply in debt and they bought me drinks. But if I had said that it would not have been true.\" The story provoked a furious response from the Mail on Sunday as both papers engaged in an undignified search for the high moral ground. The Mail on Sunday accused its rival of offering a vulnerable man large sums of money in order to trick him into perjuring himself while the Sunday Telegraph claimed the Mail's earlier story \"tainted by hidden payments and based on the exploitation of a truly pitiful individual - we are referring to Mr Smith of course - stank from the start.\" There have been a series of investigations into Mr Smith's claims over the years. In 1996, while undergoing treatment for alcoholism at the private Priory Clinic in London, paid for by the Prince of Wales, he was visited by Princess Diana, seeking revenge on her husband, who taped his allegations. The tape, which was at the centre of the royal butler trials in 2002, has since disappeared. At one stage there was a perfunctory police investigation into the accusations. When Mr Smith was subsequently dismissed by the prince, he was given a \u00a338,000 payoff. An inquiry, headed by Sir Michael Peat, the prince's private secretary, last year concluded that the allegations were untrue but should nevertheless have been investigated more thoroughly. It added that the payment Mr Smith received on leaving the prince's employment was generous but could not be described as hush money. The Sunday Telegraph claimed that Mr Smith was in financial difficulties because of a tax bill associated with the Mail on Sunday payment. When he thought the paper would pay him enough to clear his debts he told the reporters: \"I know this is a good deal to pay everything off. I'm not just doing it for that but, you know.\" He called the prince \"a lovely bloke\" and said he would be prepared, for payment, to write a letter of apology to him, admitting the allegations were untrue.",
  "title": "Royal valet caught in sting backtracks on his retraction",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "uk/prince-charles",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "The tale of George Smith, the former royal valet who claimed to have seen Prince Charles engaged in a sexual act, took a new twist yesterday when a Sunday newspaper induced him to temporarily retract the story. By Stephen Bates",
  "id": "media/2004/jun/14/pressandpublishing.themonarchy1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}