{
  "content": "Happy Halloween! Time to settle around the campfire and tell some spooky stories. There's no better place to search for eerie tales than Reddit's NoSleep, the site's home for original horror fiction. We asked the subreddit's moderators to give us a brief description of r/nosleep for the uninitiated. Moderator Kerrima said: /r/nosleep is where you go to read stories to scare yourself. You're pretty sure it's not true, the same way you're pretty sure there isn't a serial killer in your basement right now, and you're pretty sure the knock at the window was probably just a tree branch. It's here to be scary and creepy, and everything here is totally true, even if it isn't. In short, /r/nosleep is the online version of the campfire you sat around telling ghost stories to freak your friends out. The difference here is that the community collaborates with the tales, getting involved in the comments and trying to give tips to the author on what they should do next. Some of the stories have even been turned into books and potential feature films. Here are a few examples of the kind of stories you'll read on NoSleep. But be warned: these aren't for the easily spooked. My dead girlfriend keeps messaging me on Facebook. By natesw Tonight's kind of a catalyst for this post. I just received another message, and it's worse than any of the others. My girlfriend died on the 7th of August, 2012. She was involved in a three car collision driving home from work when someone ran a red light. She passed away within minutes on the scene. We had been dating for five years at that point. She wasn't big on the idea of marriage (it felt archaic, she said, gave her a weird vibe), but if she had been, I would have married her within three months of our relationship. She was vibrant; the kind of girl that would choose dare every time. She was happiest when camping, but a total technophile too. She always smelled like cinnamon. Continue reading \u2026 Draw-a-Person By CoasterKid93 I had my first panic attack when I was thirteen years old. To say it was a terrifying experience would be an understatement. For a brief and fleeting seven minutes of my life, the world around me dissolved into a trembling, dissociative mess. My heart nearly cracked my chest plate. My limbs shuttered and contorted. My eyes fogged and burned. My mouth turned to sandpaper. My lungs ripped away from my throat. I knew I was going to die. I knew I was going to die in the middle of my freshman English class. I knew I was going to die all because I forgot to print out my essay. I knew I was going to die because my parents were going to kill me. I knew I was going to die because everyone in that class knew that I was going insane. At some point, all recollection of this event goes blank, and picks up an hour later on the exam table in the nurse's office. Continue reading \u2026 Both my parents were surgeons and I used to talk to furniture By invictus1988 Both my parents were surgeons and I used to talk to furniture. I grew up in an area where the properties are so large and the families are so wealthy, that they build mansions and walls inclosing themselves in their own private paradises - never interacting with their neighbors unless by some strange coincidence. I was home-schooled until the age of 7, which is where this story ends. Continue reading \u2026 Her name was Emma By alackofcoasters Her name was Emma. That's what everyone called her, anyways. Sometimes they would call her Em, sometimes someone would slip up and call her Emily. She was a part of our group of girlfriends growing up in a large town, not quite big enough to be a city but big enough that there was still privacy between neighbours. We called ourselves the \"Unbreakable Six,\" because there was me, Summer, Mel, Nina, and Jules. And there was Emma. Emma started off as a practical joke by the other girls in the fourth grade. It was probably Jules that started it. She was always playing pranks of people. In high school, she even got suspended once for going too far, and had to babysit for hours to buy that girl a new cellphone. Or maybe it was Summer, who always seemed too busy with music and band to think of such an elaborate prank. Or maybe it was Mel and Nina, who were best friends and could have lived without us, always conspiring together like they were twin sisters. Continue reading \u2026 For more urban horror stories, head to the subreddit \u2013 but don't expect to get a good night's sleep. Have a horror story of your own to share? Let us know in the comments.",
  "title": "The internet's spookiest tales: what's your modern horror story?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/halloween",
    "technology/reddit",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "As it's Halloween, we'd like to hear your spookiest stories. Need inspiration? Check out these goosebump-worthy stories from Reddit",
  "id": "lifeandstyle/2014/oct/31/halloween-internets-spookiest-tales-modern-horror-story",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}