{
  "content": "The child killer Mary Bell and her daughter won a high court injunction yesterday guaranteeing them lifelong anonymity, in only the second case in which the courts have granted such a ban. Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss, president of the family division, made the order forbidding disclosure of the current identities and whereabouts of Bell and her daughter to protect their right to private and family life under article 8 of the European convention on human rights. She said the case for an injunction was not as strong as in the case of Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, killers of two-year-old James Bulger, whose lives would have been in danger if their new identities were revealed. But she was satisfied that Bell's fragile mental state and other exceptional factors, such as her age at the time of the killings, justified the interference with the right of free speech. Dame Elizabeth said the media had not opposed the injunction and the attorney general and the official solicitor supported it. She denied that it would open the floodgates to other convicted criminals to try to protect themselves from press harassment. \"As far as I am aware, there are at present no other child killers who have been released from prison or detention,\" she said. Bell, now 46, was 11 when she was convicted in December 1968 of the manslaughter of Martin Brown, four, and Brian Howe, three. She was released on licence in 1980. Dame Elizabeth said Bell had been able to live a largely settled life in the community, although there had been a number of changes of identity and moves. She had now lived in the community for 23 years and she and her partner of 15 years had brought up her daughter, who had developed into a \"charming and well-balanced girl\". She accepted evidence that mother and daughter were at \"considerable risk of press intrusion and harassment, public stigma and ostracism\" if their identities were disclosed. They had been forced by press harassment and intrusion to relocate five times and had changed identities three times. In 1984, a tabloid found out about the birth of Bell's daughter, Y, who will be 19 on Sunday, and the baby was made a ward of court and an injunction granted to protect her identity, which expired when she turned 18. A \"holding injunction\" was imposed pending yesterday's judgment. When the child was four, her mother's identity became known where they then lived and parents at her school drew up a petition to exclude her from school. The same year, Y's father sold an untrue story about Bell to the media and the family had to move again. Her case got more publicity in 1993, in the wake of the murder of James Bulger, and in 1998 when she co-operated in a book about her life for which she was paid \u00a350,000. Dame Elizabeth said it was highly relevant that Bell was so young at the time of the killings and that she had suffered in her own childhood to an extent that the jury brought in a verdict of manslaughter by reason of diminished responsibility. \"She was a damaged child and the effects of her abusive experiences have remained with her.\" A forensic psychiatrist concluded that press intrusion would amount to \"further psychological abuse\". The home secretary, David Blunkett, said: \"I supported Mary Bell in the application, mainly on behalf of her daughter. It seems to me that whatever the crime of the past of her mother, the daughter should not suffer.\" June Richardson, whose four-year-old son Martin Brown was one of Bell's victims, said she had hoped that conditions would be attached to the anonymity, ensuring the killer could not make any money out of her past.",
  "title": "Mary Bell and daughter granted lifelong anonymity",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "society/childprotection",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "The child killer Mary Bell and her daughter won a high court injunction yesterday guaranteeing them lifelong anonymity, in only the second case in which the courts have granted such a ban.\n",
  "id": "media/2003/may/22/privacy.childprotection",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}