{
  "content": "\"The imperative to self-knowledge has always been at the heart of philosophical inquiry,\" wrote MIT professor Sherry Turkle in the seminal book about the web and the self, Life on the Screen: Identity in the Age of the Internet. Published in 1995 as the second part of a trilogy that examined our relationships with technology, it looked at how we are who we are in online spaces. And what that means for us offline. The good news is that the results are positive: \"Play has always been an important aspect of our individual efforts to build identity,\" she said, referencing developmental psychologist Erik Erikson, and nodding to the theories of psychoanalysts Freud, Lacan and Jung. \"In terms of our views of the self,\" she wrote, \"new images of multiplicity, heterogeneity, flexibility, and fragmentation dominate current thinking about human identity.\" In this postmodern world, anyone can be anything they'd like, even a lesbian Syrian blogger. Tom MacMaster, who was uncovered to much dismay as the author behind the fictional, Damascus-based \"Amina Abdullah Arraf al-Omari\", maintains that he was using the platform to express himself and to play around with self-presentation. He is the most recent high-profile case that demonstrates Turkle's description of the web as an identity laboratory. At the time Life on the Screen was released, the freaks and geeks populating the internet's tubes were a specialised bunch; most were college students and their professors from a remarkably small talent pool, and a surprisingly small geography. They were tech-savvy, and generically open-minded about the new fields of virtual exploration that lay within the networks of this nascent communication platform. They were, in other words, liberal, enlightened types who were more willing to embrace the unprecedented fluidity of self-expression that this new technology uniquely afforded than technophobes, who thought everyone online was either a freak or a geek. As a psychoanalyst and a web user herself, Turkle spent much of the book explaining why the articulation of multiple personalities wasn't pathological. Contrary to its Latin root, identity need not mean \"the same\", she argued. \"No one aspect can be claimed as the absolute, true self\", she wrote, maintaining that the web allowed us the opportunity to get to know our \"inner diversity\". In the great psychoanalytic tradition, she said that self-actualisation meant coming to terms with who we are, and integrating each aspect of it into a coherent and well-integrated us. Nowadays, almost everyone has experienced this kind of identity play. Even if you've never ventured into an online game or been a signed-up member of a web community, you've probably developed a profile for a social network, written a blog, styled a website, commented on an article or contributed to the ongoing tsunami of updates on Twitter. You've probably done more than one. Congratulations: you have experienced the postmodern experience of actively constructing your online identity. Just as Turkle described more than 15 years ago, the web is a medium in which action is absolutely essential to express ourselves. Unlike the rich space of offline life, where our identity cues are given away on sight, sound, smell, touch and taste, online we perform. Most of us present an idealised \"me\", fabricated specifically for our various, compartmentalised and implied audiences. Often that means putting our best foot forward in each of the media we use: we preen and pout for profile pics, we voice attitudes and opinions that we think will make us appeal to the people whom we most want to like us and we post and tweet information that we find interesting and which won't make us look rubbish. Most importantly, and for the most part, we think first. But things are different from the time when Turkle was writing Life on the Screen. Most communities were populated by strangers, and that anonymity afforded a frivolity with the self that was relatively consequence-free. Nowadays, our virtual social lives are increasingly integrated with our offline social lives. For example, Facebook demands account holders' real names and trades on a currency of real friendship. The freedom of expression is curtailed by the threat of offline consequences from online actions. Today, your reputation offline is far more closely tied to your reputation online than before. Contemporary online identity is also no longer in the sole control of the individual. On the modern web, we comprise the personal, idealised representations that we curate and the pictures of ourselves looking not so hot, taken by so-called \"friends\" at a party and uploaded on to a social network. The halcyon days of identity play Turkle described in 1995 are not available to most of today's web users; in fact, our experience of contemporary identity online is disarmingly similar to offline. Turkle's latest book, Alone Together, is published in the UK this week. It is an astonishing volte-face from her previous two books, which were much more utopian in tone. Her new approach to our relationship with technology is informed by 15 years of observing a mainstream consumer base co-construct itself with persistent access to the network. She believes this has taken its toll on who we are. \"It used to be, 'I have a feeling, I want to make a call,'\" she said at a recent debate at the British Library, \"[and this has changed] to, 'I want to have a feeling, I need to send a text.'\" I still subscribe to the old Turkle. Consequence-free online environments allow us to practise and play without fear of offline repercussion, and offer an extraordinary place to experience the fluidity of our selves. On the internet, I can be anyone, even a dog. As Tom MacMaster found, there still are places online where this is possible. He found his audience, as have I: I tweet, therefore I am.",
  "title": "Aleks Krotoski: how free are we to choose our online identities?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/blogging",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "science/psychology",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "One of the net's original evangelists says that our experience of the web is changing our identity both on and offline, writes Aleks Krotoski",
  "id": "technology/2011/jun/19/aleks-krotoski-online-identity-turkle",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}