{
  "content": "Idina Menzel might have thought her name was Idina Menzel, but John Travolta knew better. In what was by far the best moment of the 86th Academy awards \u2013 even better than Pharrell dancing with Lupita and Meryl, and that's saying a lot \u2013 was John Travolta's 'pronunciation' of Menzel's name. It's not even a difficult name to pronounce. Ee-deena Men-zel. Travolta, however (Tra-volta), introduced the Tony-award winning Broadway star to the stage, thusly: If you didn't quite catch that, here's a full transcript: Please welcome, the WiCk-edly talented, the juan and oNly Idina Menzel azhfgfljfefhisjkfs Setting aside for a moment the fact that Travolta apparently also struggles with the word 'wickedly', and adds a vibrato flourish to \"the one and only\", the glaringly obvious discrepancy here is the blender of vowels he tries to pass off as a name. Of course, we've all mumbled the chorus of a pop song into our sternums when we've forgotten the exact words, but then, we probably didn't have an audience of millions watching. The nearest thing to a legible sounding name was 'Adele Dazeem', or 'Adele Dazim'. So naturally, within minutes \u2013 and I really do mean minutes \u2013 the internet was on the case and created not just a meme, but a whole new person. This is why the internet is awesome: More parody accounts followed: Sarah Michelle Gellar aka Buffy was as perplexed as the rest of us: Our Radio and TV editor Rebecca Nicholson's professional opinion was as follows: Tumblr got involved too: And finally, Buzzfeed created their own list of other names Travolta might struggle with. So forget Lupita, forget J-Law and Matthew McConaughey, last night's Oscars belonged to one person and one person only; the wickedly talented Adele Dazeem. Oh John, you had one job.",
  "title": "Adele Dazeem dazzled in her Oscars glory - yet doesn't actually exist",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "film/john-travolta",
    "film/oscars",
    "film/oscars-2014",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "There's mispronouncing a name, and then there is butchering a name so badly that the internet creates a whole new person",
  "id": "film/2014/mar/03/oscars-adele-dazeem-john-travolta-idina-menzel",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}