{
  "content": "When I was in my 20s, I played music for a living and hung around with some, uh, interesting people. I'm grateful that today's social media didn't exist back then. (No, I'm not going to explain exactly why \u2013 use your imagination.) So is it hypocritical to object to the European Union's new requirement that Google remove links from its search display upon people's demands? Again, no \u2013 but not because it's a bad idea, in theory, for some things to be forgotten in a world where almost everything is remembered. Google has no choice but to comply with this legal requirement in one of its biggest markets, and you can be sure this kind of interference will spread. But we need updated norms far more than legal measures. It's obvious that we shouldn't be judged on other people's malicious gossip or (in my case) the stupid things we said and did when we were younger. And it's easy to say that we should cut each other a great deal of slack, discounting each others' flaws and minor misdeeds. Easy to say \u2013 yet there's observably not much done in a digital age when Google's memory and algorithms can make our worst moments (whether or not they reflect who we really are) one of the first things anyone might learn about us \u2013 moments that can wreck careers and lives. In an earlier time we had something called \"practical obscurity\" when it came to things like court records. They were public documents, but someone had to dig them out of musty files. It took a lot of time and effort, and a lot of bad decisions simply faded into the proverbial mists of time, deservedly forgotten. But many of those bad decisions were still discoverable \u2013 it just took more effort than it might today. As a journalist I've been on several sides of this question, simultaneously an advocate for personal privacy and transparency of public records. I've had to make decisions about things I've found \u2013 the old-fashioned way \u2013 in files. It's not always an easy call. A few years after parking my guitars under the living-room piano and becoming a journalist, I was assigned to write profile of a prominent businessman who had ties to a controversial preacher. One stop in my reporting was the county courthouse in his home town, where I found a document showing that, several decades earlier, he'd been accused by his accountant of forging a document purporting to be a financial statement \u2013 an act that led the accountant to drop his client. Would the world have been better off if I \u2013 or anyone else \u2013 had been able to find the accountant's letter in a quick Google search? There had been no criminal charges in the case. The letter was definitely relevant in a profile, but I concluded (with no objection from my editors) that it didn't deserve to be the central point of the profile. I quoted it, and the businessman's denial, inside the piece on the principle that a decades-old incident that might or might not be reflective of the current person's ethics. But: the businessman was later convicted for bankruptcy fraud. Maybe a lot of people would have been spared some trouble if his earlier deed had been more public, not hidden in practical obscurity. I'm definitely not suggesting that it should be solely up to journalists and private detectives to make these decisions. But it also seems clear that Google and other technology companies shouldn't be the only ones making these choices for us, either \u2013 and the more the governments get involved, the more clear it becomes that they employ a cudgel where a scalpel is necessary. In what may be the most egregious ruling yet, a judge in British Columbia just ordered Google to remove links to a collection of websites from all of its servers around the world. The judge reasoned that, because Google sells advertising in Canada, its worldwide presence is subject to the rulings of his court. As law professor Michael Geist observed, this is crazy: The implications are enormous since if a Canadian court has the power to limit access to information for the globe, presumably other courts would as well. While the court does not grapple with this possibility, what happens if a Russian court orders Google to remove gay and lesbian sites from its database? Or if Iran orders it remove Israeli sites from the database? The possibilities are endless since local rules of freedom of expression often differ from country to country. Yet the BC court adopts the view that it can issue an order with global effect. Governments should not be giving everyone the right to remove links to public material. Where will this stop, now that it's started? With outright censorship \u2013 which seems to be gaining global favor \u2013 far beyond what we've come to consider normal? Will China's rampant blocking and removal of everything the regime finds worrisome be not only the new normal, but the arbiter of what we outside of China are permitted to see? That worst case is, thankfully, unlikely in a general way. But we'd better think through the possibilities. The right to be forgotten has great allure \u2013 yet it isn't as far removed from censorship as we might want to believe. This will be a true balancing test, of rights versus laws versus norms, and no matter how we resolve it some people will be harmed in some ways. I'm hoping we'll establish new norms, where we are relentlessly skeptical of allegations, and where we cut each other considerable slack to be human. As my friend Esther Dyson has wisely advised, let's have a statute of limitations on stupidity.",
  "title": "The 'right to be forgotten' can too easily become the ability to be censored | Dan Gillmor",
  "lead": "Dan Gillmor: Everyone does stupid things. But we shouldn't all have the right to pick which parts of our history get deleted from the internet",
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "media/privacy",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/google"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/jun/24/right-to-be-forgotten-censoring-google-results",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}