{
  "content": "In building his startup Loomia, David Marks came across some typical problems in trying to balance personalisation with privacy. Their Facebook application launched 18 months ago and allowed friends to see what other friends are reading onlline, linking to and recommending. Though nine times out of ten that's a very straightforward process, a lawyer friend told him that it would be problematic for her if other people could see what she was reading. Those kind of edge cases are usually where problems are highlighted, he said. \"So how can we simultaneously be out there sharing stuff with friends on Facebook, but at the same time be concerned about privacy and what Google knows about me?\" This is one of SXSWi's core conversations, which work like a huge roundtable where everyone pitches in their ideas and experience. Privacy and control of data about you is like backing up your computer when it crashes; people worry passively about it and don't think to do anything until they get bitten. Ann Hudspeth of Microsoft, who works on Windows Live, said the new version of Hotmail with personalisation features had shown that people are increasingly warming up to information about them being shared, but that universal standards for privacy could be a possibility. Facebook's new friend list feature was well received because the group said they wanted and needed more subtlety over control of different groups of people in our lives. We all have different public and private personas and though we might use different social networks for different groups, like LinkedIn for work, these do overlap. The crowd at this conference is not mainstream, but as early adopters are obliged to explore and try to resolve some of these issues for the mainstream so that might be a 15 year-old Facebook user for whom privacy is very important, but she perhaps doesn't realise quite how much. For many people, the huge list of privacy settings in Facebook alone are just too complex, and perhaps there's a role for education because people just aren't aware of the implications of putting too much personal information online. There's an instinct among older generations that it is A Bad Thing, but younger web users have a very different attitude - though that's less about a generational gap and more about maturity, said one delegate. We learn... Is the solution one centralised desktop app that would let you control privacy on multiple sites? Facial recognition is another powerful tool that could be part of that; you might not even know that someone had taken photos of you and that they were online, but that kind of technology can give people more control. Perhaps the increasingly interconnected social networks will eventual offer clearer, more centralised security and privacy controls that will be much simpler for people - and connected to one shared login, like Open ID. What about credit card companies? They hold far more important information that Facebook and it is closed, with few ways for us to access or control it. We are also, perhaps, far less discriminating about the information we give out offline: \"You want my daughter's name so I can have $8 discount? Sure! Have a photo too!\" \"I've got a great app for controlling my privacy online - it's called Not Doing Anything I'm Ashamed Of,\" said one delegate...",
  "title": "@ SXSWi: The impossible balance between privacy and personalisation?",
  "lead": "In building his startup Loomia, David Marks came across some typical problems in trying to balance personalisation with privacy. By Jemima Kiss",
  "tags": [
    "technology/sxswi",
    "media/media-events-conferences",
    "technology/recommendation-sites",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/pda/2009/mar/16/sxswi-events",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}