{
  "content": "Perhaps Ireland's most seasoned internet entrepreneur, Ray Nolan made a lot of money selling Hostel World, which was bought by an investment firm in November last year for close to $500m. Nolan has a high profile Ireland and has become a regular mentor and adviser to small businesses. But he also has his own new project Worky.com, which is trying to create a better space for job seekers somewhere between Facebook and LinkedIn. Fresh from a SkyScanner board meeting in Edinburgh, Nolan explained the problem Worky is trying to solve: ever found something wholly unsuitable for a prospective employer when Googling yourself? \"In five years' time everyone will have a professional profile,\" he says. \"The proof of the pudding is in the searching, and we can't rely on Facebook and Google to hide embarrassing data about us. In the last six to eight months there's been a big move to start protecting your professional profile, and to protect elements of Facebook from being published outside.\" So is it a social network? \"It's what you want it to be, a place to promote yourself. It has everything a social network has, but you can't have a CV in Facebook and get Googled in a picture of you at a party. We need to own our professional profiles before somebody else does.\" Funded by Nolan off the back of that Hostel World deal, and with 100,000 users in 150 countries, Worky already has a healthy userbase in Ireland, the UK and US with 1,000 new users joining each day, Nolan claims. It launched in May last year, with about $1m and 10 developers to get it off the ground. With the iPhone app out today, Worky hopes to become that little bit more addictive - particularly with its analytics tool that show's who's browsing your profile. \u2022 What's your pitch? \"Worky is like Facebook for work. We build you a profile, SEO it and measure it. So you can build CV online, promote yourself and measure the stats to show who has viewed your profile. We automatically match 2.5m jobs from 25 countries against your profile. You can check jobs on your phone using the Worky app and apply from your phone, get status updates from companies you want to follow on a private network and follow companies you want to work for.\" \u2022 Who's the competition? \"Recruitment sites are like bad versions of what used to be on newspaper sites. The real issue for employers is that people already in jobs aren't not really looking, but we'll show jobs to those people. \"We're nearer to Facebook than LinkedIn in terms of the tone of voice we use on the site, but in terms of functionality it's a place for your professional life, not your social life. Worky has a much more friendly interface than LinkedIn and the positioning isn't as lofty. Then again if LinkedIn's a social network, then so are we. But LinkedIn doesn't promote you outside of LinkedIn. We offer what they have, but they don't offer what we have.\" \u2022 How do you make money? \"Job listings are free and then we charge for promotional opportunities. We do have some advertising. And we'll sell you your domain name, host it and SEO it and provide statistical analysis for $50 per year.\" \u2022 What makes your business unique? \"I could register RayNolan.com and set up a site, but that could take two to three man days. The trade off is to do it with Worky.com, so you pay $50 for one year to get your domain name, put your Worky profile on that URL and we'll SEO it for you. So if someone Googles you, they find your site. This is your little piece of the internet.\" worky.com",
  "title": "Irish tech startups: Worky gets to work getting you a job",
  "lead": "Facebook party photos sabotaging your career? Worky claims it can help us take control of our professional profiles online. By Jemima Kiss",
  "tags": [
    "technology/startups",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/linkedin",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/pda/2010/dec/01/worky-social-networking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}