{
  "content": "Academics at Oxford University have been ordered to destroy the notes they make when marking finals exam papers to keep them out of the hands of a growing number of students seeking to challenge their grades. Undergraduates are increasingly using rights under the Data Protection Act to demand access to examiners' official comment sheets in order to have their marks reviewed. But in a surprise move the university, which says hunting out the notes causes a \"considerable nuisance\", has told tutors they must tear them up as soon as grades are published to stop students getting hold of them. The instruction, revealed in a letter to history tutors leaked to the Guardian, comes as the university introduces major changes to its grading system for finals this year which its academics believe are a way of cutting back on the spiralling number of first-class degrees being awarded. That change, which the university insists is not a covert attempt to address grade inflation, in effect gives examiners the right to adjust degree class boundaries in the first year of the new marking system to determine the final proportion of firsts, upper seconds and other grades. Student leaders said yesterday they were \"furious\" at the news that academics were being encouraged to repress the information about how they had awarded marks while even tutors branded the move \"machiavellian\". According to the leaked letter, sent this week to history faculty members by the chairman of the final honour school, Simon Skinner, last summer's finals papers marked under the new rules would have brought the proportion of history firsts down from 65 - 23% of the total - to just 38 - 13.5% of the total - while increasing the number of upper seconds from 196 to 223 - almost 80%. The university said the changes would apply to all humanities subjects. One tutor said: \"The new marking rules will make it much harder to get a first than under the current rules.\" Another tutor described the order to destroy marking notes as \"machiavellian\": \"They are going to rip up all the papers at the same moment they are introducing a major change in the marking conventions, the result of which they don't know.\" Although the university has no figures for the number of students challenging their grades, a spokeswoman said there was \"anecdotal evidence\" that the practice is increasing. One tutor said: \"Students are behaving more like consumers; we are seeing something like an Americanisation of higher education.\" Dr Skinner's letter acknowledges the trend: \"Candidates' increasing exercise of the right to solicit all materials pertaining to their examination has caused considerable nuisance in the past year.\" The letter goes on: \"From this year it has been decreed that ... comment sheets can be destroyed as soon as the class lists have been posted. \"Once they have agreed marks, assessors should therefore destroy any copies of comments, or rough drafts ... and will be asked to sign a declaration to this effect; any retained materials would be discloseable in the event of a claim.\" A university spokeswoman said students had increasingly asked to see marking notes after learning they had the right to do so through student newspapers. She said the notes were simply examiners' rough jottings which did not constitute a formal appraisal of the work. The university was entirely within the law to destroy the notes, she added. Louise McMullan, Oxford student union's representative for educational policy, said: \"We are furious about the instructions to tutors to destroy the comment sheets, as they are potentially an important source of information for students about how their degree classification has been decided. The information is often critical for students wanting to do postgraduate work. \"Yet in some cases the note may be no more than three words long. We have been fobbed off and find it hard to believe that the university is doing something like this in such an underhand way.\"",
  "title": "Dons told to tear up exam notes",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/uk",
    "education/higher-education",
    "education/accesstouniversity",
    "education/administration",
    "education/education",
    "education/universityguide",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Outrage as Oxford moves to stop students from using data protection law to challenge their grades.",
  "id": "uk/2004/mar/31/highereducation.accesstouniversity",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}