{
  "content": "Facebook may not have pioneered the use of hashtags in social networking conversations, but now that it's adopting the feature, the company is determined to capitalise. That was the main takeaway from last week's MIPCOM television industry conference in Cannes, where Facebook's vice president of partnerships Dan Rose gave a keynote speech that was low on specific announcements, but high on strategic lines to read between. \"Today, the intersection of social media and television is a given. Nowadays it's literally hard to flip through he channels without seeing social media integrations everywhere you look,\" said Rose. \"Social media has truly become an inseparable part of the television experience. Everywhere you look you see Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter being integrated into the TV experience.\" Note the order of those three services. Rose's speech had several pointers to the social network's desire to establish its credentials as a social TV partner for broadcasters and producers ahead of Twitter, which has spent the last couple of years publicising its own second-screen role, while forging relationships with TV companies. Part of Facebook's efforts involve adopting some of Twitter's most prominent features, particularly hashtags, which it started making clickable on its social network in June. \"Hashtags are part of the language of the internet, and now part of the language of Facebook. And soon we'll be rolling out trending topics too,\" said Rose, who added that he's had access to the latter feature for some time. \"During primetime hours, unsurprisingly many of the trending topics are about television.\" Rose cited examples from big TV events, including 9m people \"interacting\" on Facebook about MTV's recent Video Music Awards (VMAs) \u2013 a word that covers Likes and shares as well as actual comments \u2013 and 125m interactions around the NBA basketball finals earlier in the year. Now that both Facebook and Twitter support hashtags, the former is hoping that even more broadcasters will display official hashtags while on-air, while also making use of the social network's two new APIs for broadcasters that help them make sense of viewers' activity on Facebook. Unveiled in September, the Public Feed API shows a real-time feed of public Facebook posts for a specific word, while the Keyword Insights API aggregates posts mentioning a specific term, and helps broadcasters drill down into the data to understand the buzz. Sky was the first British broadcaster to become a partner for the APIs, but last week Channel 4 signed up too, with plans to use them for three shows initially: Made in Chelsea, Sunday Brunch and Channel 4 News. More on social TV \u2022 Social TV apps: 'second screen is what you'd call a lawyer's paradise' \u2022 Shazam: 'TV ads are going to become our primary revenue stream' \u2022 Social TV and second-screen viewing: the stats Rose's pitch to the TV industry was squarely focused on real identity, in an effort to show why Facebook's advantages over Twitter are about more than pure user numbers (1.1bn and 215m active users respectively). \"These conversations are't taking place between a bunch of anonymous strangers. They're happening between family, friends, co-workers and neighbours,\" said Rose. \"More than any other platform, Facebook mirrors the way people have always engaged in conversations about TV, with the people that matter to them.\" He later returned to this real-identity theme when talking about the kind of data-mining that's possible with the two new APIs. \"Because people use their real identities on Facebook and we have massive scale, Facebook is uniquely situated to be able to offer this kind of analysis,\" he said. Twitter may disagree, having made two acquisitions in the last year of analytics companies: Bluefin Labs in February and Trendrr in August \u2013 the latter just a month after it had worked with Facebook on research claiming to show that \"the volume of Facebook user engagement relating to television programming was 5 times as large as all other social networks combined\". The two social networks are competing fiercely to prove they can provide the best, most useful analytics to broadcasters, while lobbying for more on-air appearances for their respective brands \u2013 even if sensible broadcasters will more likely opt to work with both, and use brand-less hashtags to cover all social networks. The case that broadcasters should not be ignoring social networking appears to be made, though. \"The second screen, instead of drawing people away from TV is pushing people towards TV,\" said Rose at MIPCOM, citing a prominent show as an example. \"My news feed blew up after the Red Wedding episode of Game of Thrones aired on HBO. It was like all my friends called me at the same time. After that, how could you not watch this show?\"",
  "title": "Facebook goes hard on hashtags to tempt TV execs away from Twitter",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/television",
    "media/television",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/mipcom"
  ],
  "lead": "'More than any other platform, Facebook mirrors the way people have always engaged in conversations about TV,\" VP of partnerships Dan Rose told MIPCOM. By Stuart Dredge",
  "id": "technology/2013/oct/14/facebook-hashtags-twitter-social-tv",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}