{
  "content": "What more can Facebook do to expand the fan pages on its site to appeal to more brands and advertisers? Adidas Originals thinks the answer is more localisation of the campaigns and e-commerce links, and has introduced a new tab to its fan page that tailors content according to the location of the Facebook user. Tailoring ads to location is nothing new for Facebook of course, but fan pages are designed to be more engaging than display ads and will be far more relevant to users if the content is region specific. In the case of Adidas Originals, that means house parties (their campaign theme) in each country and promotions for certain products at local stores. Localisation is pretty modest at this stage and is more national than local, with 13 localised versions for countries including the US, UK, France, Italy, Japan and South Africa. The new tab was launched two weeks ago and has been fairly buried, but this particular brand claims 1.9m users have signed up to its fan page so it does have some weight. The next stage would be versions localised for cities, and a regional Latin America version is planned. For Adidas, Facebook fan pages are a combination of e-commerce and marketing, though the priority is not necessarily a direct revenue stream at this stage, said a spokesman. Blake Chandlee, Facebook's commercial director for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, told me that the advertising community is always enthusiastic about these kinds of feature enhancements, such as introducing brand updates into the newsfeed. Fan pages are fully opt-in, so invasive ads and spamming are not an issue, but there is still the need for brands to balance the hard sell commercial content on their pages with more fun content and user contributions that make them feel they have some ownership of the brand. Is it more important for Facebook to innovate during a recession \u2013 to try to keep its advertisers? Chandlee pointed to several companies that had either been founded in or flourished during recessions, including Microsoft and Google, and said there is an even greater imperative for companies to experiment and innovate to define and strengthen their brands during a downturn. \"They need robust advertising businesses and while models based on CPM and CPC are important, the engagement model and building on those social connections between people takes us to where we need to be going,\" he said. Facebook's fan pages are absolutely not a final product, but perhaps \"half a per cent\" towards the potential of engagement marketing. This is where Facebook is trying to develop best practice. In terms of user time, 70% is spent on home and profile pages and status updates and about a further 20% on pages for groups. \"But that could change very quickly, especially as brands are only just starting to realise that they can do much more than just create a page and stick their logo on it,\" said Chandlee. \"This requires a whole new level of investment and understanding \u2013 it's a question of not just being there but how do you support the activity [that already exists around a brand]? Who really owns the PR, the marketing and the advertising \u2013 who owns that relationship?\"",
  "title": "Facebook starts localising content on brand fan pages",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/advertising",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "What more can Facebook do to expand the fan pages on its site to appeal to more brands and advertisers? By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "media/pda/2009/jun/01/facebook-advertising",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}