{
  "content": "Have you launched a new business? Are you ready to tell the world about it? If you're a startup with a limited marketing budget this can prove something of a challenge. One way to grab headlines and get people talking about you is to include an element of controversy in your marketing. When this is done well, it can be very effective. Andrew Hawkins, managing director at creative agency Doner, says businesses can be controversial as long as they're clever, and points to French Connection's innuendo-laden FCUK campaign and Sophie Dahl's famous ad for Yves Saint Laurent Opium perfume, where she poses naked. \"They all set out to be clever, and were targeted at their audience,\" he says. However, there are risks involved with this approach. A misjudged advert can provoke a backlash, and while this might raise awareness of your business, it can damage your brand in the long-term. So how do you get it right? Think about who you are selling to Matt Smith, director of The Viral Factory, a social video agency, says firms should only go for a controversial campaign video if it chimes with their customer base. \"If you're a groovy skateboard brand whose target customers like something edgy and current [it could work for you]. But if you're selling a skincare product to middle-aged women, it's not going to be much benefit.\" He admires the strategy of US company Dollar Shave Club, which offers a subscription service to deliver men's razor blades. The startup's co-founder, Michael Dubin, stars in its YouTube videos performing improvised comedy. The first video, published in March 2012, parodies the big name razor brands and is filled with swear words. It cost just $4,500 to make and within a week gathered 3 million views. The viral video helped Dollar Shave Club to quickly build its brand and, since then, it's continued to add videos to its YouTube channel. While the company branched out into more expensive TV ads last year, its online marketing strategy has gathered a solid customer base of 20 and 30 somethings. Dubin recently said the brand has 2 milllion subscribers to its delivery service. And, following a recent $75m funding round, Dollar Shave Club is now valued at $615m. Smith says it's also about how controversy is interpreted. He points out that for a campaign to go viral, it doesn't have to provoke or offend. It can gain media coverage by presenting a fresh take on a topical issue in a way that gets people talking. Protein World: publicity and backlash One campaign that has divided the opinion of marketers is the now-infamous Protein World advert, which appeared across London Underground stations and featured a model in a bikini with the tagline \"Are you beach body ready?\". It led to a huge backlash over alleged \"body-shaming\". Many of the posters were defaced, a petition calling for its removal gathered more than 70,000 signatures, a protest was held in London's Hyde Park and the hashtag #everybodysready took off. The brand behind the ad was all over the media and on everybody's lips. So was it worth it? Protein World certainly thinks so. The company has always maintained that the ad did not imply that everyone should look like the model. And this week the Advertising Standards Authority said the ad did not breach any UK rules relating to harm and offence or responsible advertising. Protein World claims the \u00a3250,000 ad campaign resulted in 30,000 new customers and an extra \u00a32m in sales in one week. During a TV interview its marketing director, Richard Staveley, said: \"It's been a brilliant campaign for us.\" Some advertising experts agree, arguing that it was great marketing. But Hawkins disagrees. \"In the short-term there's success from a financial point of view, but I wouldn't be proud of it. They don't care about the people who have been offended.\" 'Not all attention creates sales' Peter Souter, chairman and chief creative officer at ad agency TBWA London, agrees and believes small businesses should steer away from using a controversial style of advertising to raise awareness. \"Controversial marketing can cause damage to a brand \u2013 I don't believe it works,\" he says. \"Protein World is doomed [after that ad]. Not all attention creates sales. It will make some people embarrassed to go to the till to buy it.\" Souter says look for alternative styles of messages in your adverts. \"I can see why a small business might want to get noticed but there are other ways to get attention that can lead to a positive outcome. My view is, don't do it. Look at creating impactful, memorable campaigns that don't set out to court controversy. Have an intelligent debate. There's so many other ways to make a compelling ad.\" Consider the reaction Controversy is not a strategy to embark on lightly, says Rachel Barnes, editor of trade title Marketing. It can be risky and should only be considered by those brands who know they are polarising and are not afraid to harness negative consumer opinion. \"You need people, resources, time, social media understanding and, most importantly, you need to know your brand and your consumer inside and out.\" Giving the example of Paddy Power, she says: \"It has controversy at the centre of its marketing, but they refer to it as 'mischief making'. The important thing to remember, however, is that while much of its work might appear like someone has just thought of an idea and they've raced to get the ad made, this is a company with some very clever people behind its marketing, both at the company and its ad agency Lucky Generals.\" Businesses should consider all the possible outcomes and be ready to manage the consequences. For brands that have sparked an unexpected backlash, they should first ask themselves if they have actually done something wrong, advises Mobbie Nazir, chief strategy officer at social media agency We Are Social. \"If the answer is yes, they should apologise and take action to remedy what they've done to provoke the reaction. If they are confident in their position, but have caused emotional distress, they should try to understand the consumers' point of view, and work to resolve any misunderstanding. Criticising others' opinions, going on the defensive or blanket silence are all generally bad responses on social.\" Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.",
  "title": "Is all publicity good publicity?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "small-business-network/small-business-network",
    "media/media",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/advertising",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Protein World has demonstrated that controversial adverts can get people talking about your business. But can they also damage your brand?",
  "id": "small-business-network/2015/jul/03/all-publicity-good-publicity-protein-world-controversial",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}