{
  "content": "\"European data protection officials have raised concerns that Google could be contravening European privacy laws by keeping data on internet searches for too long,\" says The Financial Times. This repeats issues raised by the Norwegian Data Inspectorate last year, \"as part of a larger investigation of Norwegian search engines. Sesam and Kvasir\". Peter Fleischer, European privacy counsel for Google, said the company needed to keep search information for some time for security purposes - to help guard against hacking and people trying to misuse Google's advertising system. Google chief executive Eric Schmidt recently prompted a round of Big Brother scare stories by saying Google wanted to know so much about users that it could tell them what to do -- a competition won by The Independent. This story included a couple of interesting paras: Ross Anderson, professor of Security Engineering at Cambridge University and chairman of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, said there was a real issue with \"lock in\" where Google customers find it hard to extricate themselves from the search engine because of the interdependent linkage with other Google services, such as iGoogle, Gmail and YouTube. He also said internet users could no longer effectively protect their anonymity as the data left a key signature. \"A lot of people are upset by some of this. Why should an angst-ridden teenager who subscribes to MySpace have their information dragged up 30 years later when they go for a job as say editor of the Financial Times? But there are serious privacy issues as well. Under data protection laws, you can't take information, that may have been given incidentally, and use it for another purpose. The precise type and size of this problem is yet to be determined and will change as Google's business changes.\" Apparently the Information Commissioner doesn't care because of \"the voluntary nature of the information being targeted\". Yeah, right. If Google wants to make it voluntary, it can put a big tick box on its home page that says: \"Yes, you can compile, store and analyse information about me and my searches.\" The default, obviously, is NOT. At the moment, Google (like most other search engines) is doing it by the back door. Seems to me that it's involuntary for those not aware enough, and geeky enough, to stop it. Google complained about Microsoft's IE7 saying it was too hard to change the default search engine. Here's a tip: you can \"don't be evil\" by making it even easier to opt for privacy protection when using Google.",
  "title": "EU probes Google's grip on data",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/searchengines",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "\"European data protection officials have raised concerns that Google could be contravening European privacy laws by keeping data on internet searches for too long,\" says the FT. This follows a spate a Big Brother stories prompted by Google boss Eric Schmidt....",
  "id": "technology/blog/2007/may/25/euprobesgoogl",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}