{
  "content": "Moazzam Begg, the former Guant\u00e1namo Bay detainee, was unable to address Europe's largest hacker convention in person because the British government confiscated his passport. The British Pakistani who spent two years at the US detention facility \u2013 but who has been declared not guilty of terrorism charges \u2013 spoke to the event by video link, urging developers to continue building free software encryption tools for political resistance. \"What did I ever do to these governments? They took me from my home in Pakistan to the world's most notorious prison,\" Begg said. \"If seeking justice and accountability they think will harm them, then I will continue to do that. Nobody is above the law.\" Begg was addressing the Chaos Communication Congress alongside British Muslim convert Cerie Bullivant. Both were speaking on behalf of Cage, the UK campaign group that fights for the rights of communities affected by the war on terror, and said the technology developed by people at the convention was key to their campaign work. \"When your whole reason to be is to hold the state to account, to ask questions of people that don't want to have questions asked of them, it's essential that we can protect our sources, that we're not being undermined in those operations,\" Bullivant told the Guardian. \"But also just to build solidarity. Muslims are used as the canary in the mine. But next on the list are activists and dissidents\" \u2013 like some of the people in attendance in Hamburg. \"There's a massive push to try and separate us, to tell people on the left that you're regressive if you stand by the Muslims. The fact of the matter is we're all here to work for a common goal: that is individual liberty and freedom, and not to have a surveillance state that is unaccountable.\" A moral duty to talk about this violation of human rights Begg was detained in Pakistan in 2002 and transferred to extrajudicial detention centres in Afghanistan's Bagram internment facility and, later, at Guant\u00e1namo Bay. In recent years, he says his unjust persecution has continued as his assets have been frozen and his families' bank accounts closed \u2013 including his 11-year-old son's bank account \u2013 under laws designed to freeze the assets of terrorists. In 2014, he was released from the British high-security prison, Belmarsh, after a terrorism prosecution against him collapsed. Begg had spent months awaiting trial over terrorism charges related to a trip to Syria when it emerged that police and prosecutors had obtained secret intelligence material that undermined the terrorism case against him. Begg was introduced to the audience in Hamburg by Jacob Appelbaum, a prominent member of the hacker community who has volunteered for WikiLeaks and is an employee of the Tor Project, a free software tool for online anonymity. \"This person is the canonical example of someone who is completely innocent,\" Appelbaum said. \"He should be able to come in person. The fact that he cannot travel here is a fundamental violation of his human rights \u2026 We have a moral duty to talk about the things that are taking place.\" Bullivant lived under a control order, a type of house arrest, for two years and was jailed for six months in a maximum security prison on suspicion of links to terrorism. When his case eventually went to court it was dismissed by the judge for lack of evidence. \"I was never given any reason. To this day I still don't know what I was even accused of in the first place,\" he said. On his way to the event in Hamburg, he claimed, he was detained for three hours and interrogated by German authorities at the behest of British law enforcement. \"These are cases of due process. Muslims and the suspect community are the canaries in the mine. People are more likely to be accepting of these things when it's posed as a terrorism issue.\" Bullivant warned the audience that if abuses to due process are tolerated by society when they happen to Muslims, it will affect others in the future and erode the principles of justice. 'I thought: 'I've done nothing wrong \u2013 I've got nothing to fear' Begg spoke about the importance of encryption tools, to protect vulnerable communities from suspicion. He told a story about an interrogation in Bagram when he was forced to listen to a woman's screams in an adjoining room and told they belonged to his wife, and shown pictures of his children that British authorities got off his laptop. Begg said he was threatened by the CIA during his interrogation to be sent to Egypt \"like Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi\", whose confession given under torture was used by the Bush administration to justify the invasion of Iraq. \"This is what is so important about encryption programs. It isn't because we have anything to hide. It is because we have experience of those people who are mastered in the arts of torture and abuse. Any of the information that they can use and get a hold of about you, they will use against you,\" said Begg. Bullivant attempted to travel to Syria in his early 20s, long before the current civil war started, he said. He wanted to work in orphanages and teach English. Before his flight, he was detained under Schedule 7 and interrogated for 10 hours. \"I was going backpacking basically, to learn some Arabic \u2026 I gave then my entire life story, from terrible grungy rock bands to what jobs my grandmother had. My thinking at that time was: I have nothing to fear, I've never done anything wrong.\" MI5 agents told him at the end of his detention in the airport that though he was free to travel, as a convert to Islam he fitted the profile of someone who was going to go off and become a radical. He was told not to go anywhere that could be misconstrued. Bullivant still wanted to work with children and was offered a position at an orphanage in Bangladesh, which he thought satisfied the MI5 agent's request. A few days before his flight he was put under a control order, indefinitely. Later Bullivant and his lawyers discovered that a friend of his mother's had called a terror hotline, while drunk, and said she thought he might have been radicalized because he was a new convert planning a trip to Syria. \"They'd taken the rambling, drunken phone call of somebody that I hadn't seen in two years \u2013 and taken it as verbatim proof that I was an extremist. And two and a half years of my life, flushed down the toilet. Just mad.\"",
  "title": "Former Guant\u00e1namo detainee speaks to hacker conference by video link",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/encryption",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "world/surveillance",
    "uk/uksecurity",
    "world/moazzam-begg"
  ],
  "lead": "Moazzam Begg stresses the importance of encryption programs while convert Cerie Bullivant says 'Muslims are the canaries in the mine' of civil liberties",
  "id": "technology/2015/dec/31/former-guantanamo-detainee-speaks-to-hacker-conference-by-video-link",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}