{
  "content": "I want to unfriend someone on Facebook but I'm worried I'll hurt their feelings. What should I do? First, a caveat: I may take a more callous approach to this than the average social media user. But I believe that no online friendship is a given; that every follow is earned. Curate your timeline, and do so rigorously. On Twitter in particular I may unfollow someone in a fleeting fit of intolerance, possibly to reconnect if they pick up their game in future. Easy follow, easy go is the word \u2013 Twitter can be bad enough without voluntarily weathering the worst of it. This doesn't apply as easily to Facebook, where the worst offenders can be blood ties and a hasty unfriending is more likely to create problems \"in real life\". But even there it is worth being mindful about your network. That's not just for the sake of your own enjoyment (although removing former schoolmates, one-time acquaintances and any racists can improve the Facebook experience immeasurably). It's also for the security of your information. Remember: people are creeping. Don't make it any easier for them than you have to. A few years ago, when I accepted and requested people on Facebook more freely (it was the first year of uni \u2013 I was making these ties for life!), I had 800 friends. Then one day I watched an acquaintance scroll down her timeline. I was dismayed to discover my activity was everywhere, from the stupid pages I'd liked \u2013 \"Going to the Winchester, Having a Pint and Waiting For This All To Blow Over\"; \"Getting Inappropriately Drunk in Low-Key Situations\", as was the style of the time \u2013 to my comments on the statuses of people she didn't know. My response was twofold: I became a lot more circumspect about what I posted on Facebook and I culled a lot of friends. I figured that if they didn't already know I liked getting inappropriately drunk in low-key situations, they shouldn't be able to find out online. My rule of thumb, which I continue to follow, is if a year has passed since we've seen each other, and I wouldn't stop and chat if we were to pass on the street, they are out of the fold. I may have gotten carried away. It's been seven years since the Great Cull of Winter '09 and I am still 170 Facebook friends shy of the number I started out with \u2013 the body count wouldn't have looked out of place in a Game of Thrones finale. I had also, perhaps, been naive about how personally many people would take this. I had some former friends messaging me \u2013 some hurt, some angry \u2013 to ask why they'd got the chop. It pays to ask yourself if this is a conversation you're prepared to have when you go to unfriend someone or, even better, when your friendship is first requested \u2013 it's a lot harder to sever ties than it is to form them in the first place. These days, I am more circumspect about whose requests I accept. People tend to understand if you maintain a tightly guarded social media presence, only for close friends and family. It's when they get cut from the team that it can turn ugly. Perhaps to help with these types of tough calls, in recent years platforms have introduced less antagonistic ways to manage your contacts, without them knowing. On Facebook, \"unfollowing\" someone \u2013 the tab next to \"friends\" on their profile page \u2013 means you won't see their bad content. It will be sort of like they don't exist until you get a notification that it's their birthday \u2013 a timely annual reminder to assess whether it's worth maintaining your online friendship. Muting (which has recently been extended to keywords and conversations) achieves the same on Twitter \u2013 and is an arguably more effective weapon against trolls than blocking, which I think can give them a sense of achievement. But, as I said, your sense of obligation to others will likely exceed mine. If you regret hurting someone's feelings by unfriending them, apologise and reconnect \u2013 or take the coward's route: claim you were \"hacked\". If you have a question about online etiquette that needs damage control, email elle.hunt@theguardian.com or tweet her at @mlle_elle.",
  "title": "I want to unfriend someone on Facebook but I don't want to hurt their feelings",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "culture/culture",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "In a new column, Elle Hunt negotiates the sometimes excruciating world of social media. This week: culling your contacts",
  "id": "media/2016/nov/25/i-want-to-unfriend-someone-on-facebook-but-i-dont-want-to-hurt-their-feelings",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}