{
  "content": "A decade or more ago I began writing about the way in which the misbehaviour of popular newspapers would eventually have detrimental effects on the entire British press. As professor of journalism at City University I devoted my 2004 inaugural lecture to the problem of the tabloids' misguided agenda. The argument then was that responsible journalists needed to take much more seriously the twin evils of the red-tops' trivialised, salacious editorial content and the dodgy journalistic methodology used to obtain it. It was a warning that was greeted with a mixture of hostility from tabloid editors, naturally, and polite nods from the editors of serious newspapers, sadly. Even those who agreed with my condemnation of the habitual unwarranted intrusions into privacy could not see how these would have the least effect on high-minded journalism based on the public interest. So, despite regular diatribes \u2013 mostly about the News of the World's routine use of subterfuge, entrapment and covert filming \u2013 a blind eye was turned. The chorus of complaints by victims, such as reality TV stars, footballers and actors, made little impact. It was regarded as part of the celebrity circus. The sins of the tabloids would have no lasting consequence elsewhere. We had become so used to such journalism that whenphone hacking at the News of the World was first revealed in 2006 few were surprised. Greater offence However, the real damage of News of the World-style journalism had been done well before the exposure of its reporters' reliance on illegal voicemail interceptions. Though the paper may have expressed \"sincere regret\" for its hacking activities, it would never consider apologising for a much greater offence \u2013 transforming modern popular journalism into little more than a newsprint version of an old-fashioned seaside what-the-butler-saw machine. Tabloids have always carried a lot of trivial, often sexy, froth. But the balance has changed over time. There is now a disproportionate amount of meretricious material aimed at appealing to public prurience, most of which revolves around the philandering of celebrities. For years, with increasing casualness, there have been unwarranted invasions of privacy. The unsurprising result is that media-savvy celebrities \u2013 to be more exact, their advisers, such as agents, managers, PRs and lawyers \u2013 have found a way to counter the intrusiveness. Hence the phenomenon of the so-called superinjunction. Why so-called? Because it is an inaccurate description of legal gagging orders that have been around for a long time. In truth, the term \"superinjunction\" was coined specifically to describe only those orders in which the very existence of the order itself could not be reported. Now, twisted by the likes of the Sun and the Daily Mail to fit their agenda, the term is being used to describe any injunction that prevents them from revealing the identity of people who have asked a judge to prevent publication of articles about their private lives - such as the married Premiership footballer who allegedly had a six-month affair with Welsh model Imogen Thomas (pictured right). In the main, the granting of these orders can be supported \u2013 and the campaign against them should be viewed with suspicion. The judges responsible, such as David Eady and Michael Tugendhat, are making their decisions by balancing the competing rights enshrined in the European Convention of Human Rights (ECHR) \u2013 the right to a private family life and the right to freedom of expression. Too many newspaper editors, including those from the serious end of the market, seem to believe that this is a gross inhibition of press freedom. It is no such thing. It is the natural consequence of unwarranted tabloid intrusion into the bedrooms of assorted celebrities and, as such, does not threaten the pursuit of proper journalism. As far as we can tell, no order has been granted on the grounds of protecting a person's privacy that has prevented the reporting of a story of genuine public interest. There are some worrying grey areas that merit sensible debate, but the various hysterical claims made by editors \u2013 about judge-made law, the inadequacies of the ECHR, the bypassing of the British parliament, the need for a British bill of rights and the chilling effect on investigative journalism \u2013 are well wide of the mark. The overall effect could be to choke off the publication of kiss 'n' tell stories. So what? They may add a little to the gaiety of the nation \u2013 well, the bit that consumes red-tops anyway \u2013 but their loss is not a reason for lamentation. Extraordinarily, the prime minister, David Cameron, waded into this debate by declaring that privacy laws should be decided in parliament rather than by judges and raised yet again his hobby horse about the need for a British bill of rights to supplant the ECHR. How does he think a home-grown bill of rights, or a specific privacy law, would differ from the perfectly respectable ECHR? Would there be no right to privacy? Would newspapers be given carte blanche to publish anything they liked? In practice, any bill of rights worth its salt would need to offer some right to privacy, just as it would need to ensure the right to freedom of expression. Should those rights come into dispute, it would still be the job of judges, not politicians, to decide on the merits of each case. And the central criterion for making their decisions would, of course, be no different from the current rule. They would have to adjudge whether publication was in the public interest. John Whittingdale, the usually sensible Tory MP who chairs the media, culture and sport select committee, has come up with a middle way that also makes no sense. Don't worry about a new bill of rights, he says. Instead, parliament should tell judges to start favouring press freedom rather than privacy when confronted with requests for gagging orders. Negative effects How is that supposed to work in practice? What new criteria should judges adopt in order to fulfil such a desire? At present, they appear to be interpreting each case based on the difference between what is in the public interest and what is merely interesting to the public. They also take into account the likely negative effects on children, or other innocent parties, should they allow publication. How could they do it differently? Now for the grey areas. Rightly, several people have pointed out that women have been named when details of gag orders have emerged while the identities of (allegedly) misbehaving men have been protected by the injunctions. That is unfair and we need to find a way to prevent that happening. Women have also complained that the injunctions are an abuse of the law by men. Male celebrities \"use\" women and, having cast them off, then deny them their right to speak openly. The countervailing problem is that there are plenty of instances of women sleeping with famous men in order to sell their stories to newspapers, as Baroness Deech, the head of the Bar Standards Board, remarked last week. She rather fearlessly implied that \"women who make lots of money from illicit sex\" should forfeit the right to freedom of expression. No wonder she added: \"This is no doubt an unpopular point of view on my part.\" Certainly, the News of the World and other Sunday tabloids have published stories told by women who set \"honey traps\" for celebrities. In all such cases, judges have to make what Deech rightly calls \"nuanced decisions\" and there will be occasions when we feel they get it wrong. That does not mean the principle itself is wrong. One further misunderstanding, advanced both by women and several editors, is that this is all about wealthy men. Poor people cannot afford the costs \u2013 said, variously, to be anywhere between \u00a320,000 and \u00a350,000 \u2013 to obtain a gagging order; a point made by a teary Thomas in an interview on ITV's This Morning last week. \"I have been thrown to the lions,\" she said. But the obvious truth is that newspapers are only interested in publishing stories about famous men who, by virtue of their celebrity, happen to be wealthy. So the \"rich man's law\" argument is a red herring. Personal life Then we come to the case of Andrew Marr, the BBC presenter who was once a newspaper editor. He was accused of hypocrisy, not least by the editor of Private Eye, Ian Hislop, on the grounds that a journalist should not engage in anti-journalistic behaviour. But Marr is not any old journalist. Television has made him famous and, as far as the pop papers are concerned, that makes his personal life a saleable item. At the moment he realised his privacy, and that of a child, was about to be compromised he was in exactly the same position as the actors and footballers who have obtained legal gags. Surely Hislop knows that Marr is in a different category from the horde of philandering newspaper reporters, subeditors and, yes, editors, who are of no interest to the red-top privacy invaders. Indeed, what is truly remarkable is the unprecedented alliance between the News of the World, the Daily Mail and Private Eye over pseudo-superinjunctions. It is time for the responsible, serious section of the British press to disengage from any coalition with the popular newspapers. The willingness to ignore their misconduct has led us all astray and increased the public's lack of trust in all journalism.",
  "title": "Editors tangle with the zip code",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers"
  ],
  "lead": "The serious press must stop siding with the tabloids and to regain readers' trust. By Roy Greenslade",
  "id": "media/2011/may/02/superinjunctions-editors-press-roy-greenslade",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}