{
  "content": "Why should privacy matter? We live in dangerous times when even the world's greatest democracies punish without trial and make excuses for torture. We live in iniquitous times where too many children suffer poverty and neglect. The shelter of the net curtains can seem a rather bourgeois preoccupation, as might today's revelations from the Interception of Communications Commissioner. So what if complete innocents have had their phones tapped and post read in error? What's the problem with hundreds of thousands of privacy intrusions signed off by policemen and politicians with no need for a judge? If the prime minister now admits his plans to link ID cards to the DNA database, isn't he to be commended for his honesty? Safety first and poverty second. Surely progressives should leave privacy to the green-ink brigade? If human rights were a luxury assortment, that formula would work. If you could take the English fudge and discard the Turkish delight, Mr Cameron's Conservatives could get away with their \"home-grown Bill of Rights\" that allows foreigners to be deported to their deaths. It's just that dignity, equality and fairness aren't like that. They are universal or they just don't work. Personal privacy can never be absolute in this wonderful thing called human society. Yet, imagine a society without it. Without some basic respect for that small perimeter of personal space, there would be no dignity, no intimacy and no trust. How does freedom of conscience work without private time or the joys of family life, for that matter? How free is a journalist who can't protect his or her sources or elections without a secret ballot? How fair is a trial with no right to private counsel? If there are readers who still think me too much like Victor Meldrew, who do you think suffers first and most from our casual approach to privacy? The answer is vulnerable minorities. The Home Office tells us that by April, 77% of black men aged between 15 and 34 will have their details on the DNA database, entry on which is neither universal nor limited to those convicted of crime. Ask a French Algerian if identity cards are a desirable convenience or yet another tool of oppression and discrimination. Tell me this doesn't make your progressive stomach churn. Tell me that this or that measure is necessary, proportionate and even-handed. Just don't tell me that privacy doesn't matter.",
  "title": "An unwarranted intrusion",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "law/human-rights",
    "politics/idcards",
    "politics/politics",
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "world/surveillance",
    "uk/shami-chakrabarti"
  ],
  "lead": "Shami Chakrabarti: With the government's growing powers of surveillance, it would be foolish to remain sanguine about the safety of our liberties and privacy.",
  "id": "commentisfree/2007/feb/20/anunwarrantedintrusion",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}