{
  "content": "Why is press regulation back in the headlines? The row over the Daily Mail's treatment of Ed Miliband's father last week reignited the debate over newspaper standards \u2013 days before the politicians who sit on the privy council were due to meet on Wednesday to advise the Queen whether to accept or reject a system of self-regulation put forward by the newspaper industry. The press had sensed that a government rejection was in the air and the larger newspaper groups are unlikely to swing behind the government's charter unless some small but significant changes are made. Wasn't this already settled over late-night pizza last March? In theory, yes. The Conservatives, Liberal Democrats, Labour and pressure group Hacked Off agreed to introduce a royal charter that would create a \"recognition panel\", which would in turn verify the work of a replacement for the Press Complaints Commission. It was a deal struck in the office of Ed Miliband in the early hours of 18 March, with Cabinet Office minister Oliver Letwin representing the Conservatives. What was in the government press regulation plan? Deploying the royal charter was Letwin's big idea for a compromise between Lord Justice Leveson's proposal \u2013 that a statutory body should take responsibility for monitoring an overhauled Press Complaints Commission \u2013 and the newspaper industry's belief that such oversight would give politicians too much power over the press. Formally, a royal charter is independent of parliament, once it is constructed by the government of the day, and the constitutional device is used to create corporate bodies as varied as the BBC and the Worshipful Company of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. The recognition panel it would create would also be independent of press and politicians, and its task would be to approve any potential press regulator. The recognition panel would aim to establish regulators that differed from the PCC in three ways: providing a strict system governing appointments to the new regulator's board, to ensure it was independent of newspapers and politicians; a new arbitration arm to offer cheap and speedy resolution for complaints, theoretically obviating the need for costly court cases; and a code of practice committee that involved lay members for the first time. If the three main parties agree, what's the problem? The newspaper industry was excluded from the final meeting and knew nothing of the agreement until the next morning. Such was the industry's scepticism about the cross-party political deal \u2013 particularly because of the involvement of Hacked Off, which campaigns for tougher press regulation \u2013 that a group of publishers, including Rupert Murdoch's News UK, plus the owners of the Mail, Telegraph, Mirror and Express, announced plans of their own. Meanwhile, other newspapers, such as the Guardian, were concerned that a body as opaque as the privy council, acting at the behest of the government of the day, would have the last say on press regulation. Why did some newspapers respond by introducing a rival royal charter? After initially opposing any state involvement, in April the publishers of the Mail, the Sun and the Telegraph announced they were formally rejecting the government plans and had devised their own royal charter to put before the privy council. It was a surprise move. They were joined by Trinity Mirror, publishers of the Mirror, and Richard Desmond, publisher of the Express and Star. What are the differences? They are subtle, but the press charter gives more power to the industry. Parliament's royal charter says it can only be amended by a two-thirds majority of both houses. The press royal charter says it can only be rewritten by the \"unanimous support of the members of the recognition panel, the members of the board of the regulator and the members of the boards of all the trade associations\" \u2013 the so-called triple lock. An arbitral arm, a low-cost disputes mechanism to settle complaints, isn't compulsory in the press charter. It is required to win approval of the recognition panel in the governmental system. Mass complaints about a single article \u2013 such as the Mail's profile of Ralph Miliband \u2013 can only be taken if there is \"substantial public interest\" in the press royal charter; there only has to be a public interest according to the rival model. And the press model does not insist that the regulator have power to direct apologies and remedies, whereas the parliamentary model does. What about the other newspapers not signed up to the press royal charter? The Guardian, Financial Times and Independent were the only three titles among the national papers not to sign up to a charter that they expected to be rejected by politicians. They also continue to have an open mind about the industry's proposed new regulator, the Independent Press Standards Organisation (Ipso), but still have reservations about the power and influence the body that would fund the new regulator will have, particularly when it comes to appointing the board of the watchdog. What will happen now? Newspaper groups will wait for an official announcement on their royal charter before taking the next step. There were last-minute signs suggesting politicians were trying to reach a compromise based on the cross-party charter \u2013 partly to avoid a judicial review preventing progress. But there is distrust on all sides and a compromise solution may be some way off. The Sun's columnist Trevor Kavanagh, a confidant of Rupert Murdoch, told Newsnight the dispute could run beyond the general election. Can newspapers defy the will of parliament and go it alone? Yes. There is nothing in last November's Leveson report to stop the press setting up their own regulator. He recommended \"an independent self-regulatory body\" and at one point it looked like there could be four different regulatory ones. But it may not be endorsed by the recognition panel. However, the reality is that the industry relies on the bigger national newspaper groups and local and regional publishers, who have the heft to fund the regulator. There is nothing to stop the press setting up the Ipso regulator, but under the system of carrot and sticks recommended by Leveson, to do so would mean it would not be insulated from the threat of costly exemplary damages in the event of a serious libel or breach of privacy. Associated Newspapers believes this is discriminatory and illegal under the European convention on human rights and is prepared to take a test case to Europe. Much work has already been done by newspaper groups on IPSO, which the industry believes could be up and running by January. A \"foundation\" committee consisting of Trevor Kavanagh, the Sun columnist and former political editor; Dame Sue Tinson, a former editor of News at Ten; Chris Smith, the former Labour culture secretary; and Simon Jenkins, the Guardian columnist and former Times editor, have been working with Lord Philips of Matravers to create an appointments panel which would appoint the board of the new watchdog. And what about Leveson? What does he think of this constitutional confusion? He has remained silent on the issue since his thumping four volume report was published on 30 November last year. However, he will answer questions about it for the first time when he appears before a Lords committee on Wednesday. He is expected to face more questioning on his views on the progress of press regulation reform the following day, when he appears before MPs on the Commons culture, media and sport select committee. Lisa O'Carroll",
  "title": "Parliament vs press: how rival royal charters are key to media reforms",
  "lead": "Press regulation returns to the headlines \u2013 with vital questions to be answered this week",
  "tags": [
    "media/press-regulation",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/leveson-report",
    "law/lord-justice-leveson",
    "law/law",
    "law/judicial-committee-of-the-privy-council"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2013/oct/07/parliament-press-regulation-royal-charter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}