{
  "content": "A married Premier League footballer who had flings with two women faces being named at midnight tonight after failing in an extraordinary 11th-hour plea to Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, for his identity to remain secret. His lawyers asked Lord Woolf to extend a stay on naming him until he had time to ask the House of Lords to consider whether confidentiality laws apply to affairs outside marriage. But Lord Woolf ruled that the footballer had now run out of time and the story \"would inevitably emerge irrespective of the order which the court has made.\" He said: \"One of the main reasons why the court was prepared to grant a stay was because the case was put forward in the court of appeal that it was one where the claimant was anxious to protect his wife and child from the damaging consequences of the publicity. \"But the claimant, it appears, has himself said something to his wife, as to what has happened.\" The high court judge, Mr Justice Jack, ruled last September that the laws of confidentiality could apply to relationships outside marriage and ordered that the Sunday People should be barred from reporting \"kiss-and-tell stories\" about the footballer. The newspaper successfully appealed against the order barring publication of the interviews with the footballer's former lovers, a lap dancer and a nursery teacher. Lord Woolf and two other judges heard the appeal on March 11 and ruled that an injunction would be \"an unjustified interference with the freedom of the press\". They held that brief flings did not attract the protection of confidentiality laws. The player was given three weeks' grace to convince the law lords that they should hear his case. Yesterday his lawyers unsuccessfully made a paper application for that injunction to be extended - and then, in an extraordinary last desperate bid, renewed their application before Lord Woolf, sitting in open court. The judge's decision means the footballer's identity will become known in the first moments of tomorrow morning. Lord Woolf said the appeal court had granted its stay pending an application by the footballer's legal team to the lords to challenge its ruling \"in very limited terms\". He added: \"The court was very much in two minds as to whether this was an appropriate case in which to grant a stay. It was for that reason that it imposed strict conditions. \"It does appear to me the claimants did not do all that they could have done to emphasise to the House of Lords the urgency of the matter as early as they should, bearing in mind the (legal) vacation was due to start on March 28, and experienced legal advisers such as those involved in this particular litigation should have been well aware of having the application heard within the stay which had originally been granted.\" The Sunday People had made it clear to the court that a further stay would damage the newspaper's interests, said Lord Woolf. They drew attention to the fact that the footballer had told his wife about what had happened, and he was reported to be negotiating with another newspaper. Lord Woolf said the balance was against a further stay. Not only had the wife been told, but there had been considerable publicity about the case and newspapers had even made approaches to the wife. He said lawyers for the Sunday People were probably right when they said \"this is a story which will now inevitably emerge, and it is one where the only party who will be disadvantaged if the stay is continued is the People newspaper\". The judge ordered the footballer to pay costs of his failed application, estimated in the region of \u00a34,000.",
  "title": "Footballer in privacy case to be named",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "football/football",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "A married Premier League footballer who had flings with two women faces being named at midnight tonight after failing in an extraordinary 11th-hour plea to Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, for his identity to remain secret.  By Clare Dyer",
  "id": "media/2002/mar/29/privacy.football",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}