{
  "content": "RedBoxBlue Facebook 2 stars A camera follows a bunch of rock'n'rollers as they make their way to the stage, in scenes reminiscent of the Rolling Stones' Shine a Light rock-umentary or, indeed, the infamous \"Hello Cleveland!\" scene in Spinal Tap. There's a bit of a struggle to find the stage door. \"Where's Peter?\" someone asks. Moments later, they pick up their guitars and a cocky young singer steps up to the mic. \"We've made history this week,\" he begins, echoing Noel Gallagher's famous claim at Knebworth. \"We've been in the papers. We're fantastic!\" he insists, to no audience whatsoever. That's because everyone watching Jonathan Haselden's band RedBoxBlue is doing so at home, on Facebook, presumably jumping up and down on the sofa and spilling beer all over the cat. Last week, the London-based six-piece became the first band to play live on Facebook, \"five 30-ish minute shows from a dusty studio in London\". (There have been internet gigs before: the Fratellis performed via the emerging gig site Fabchannel, and Sandi Thom infamously broadcast a gig from her \"piss-stained basement\" - later revealed to be a major label-funded stunt. But RedBoxBlue are the first to have played via a social networking site.) The question is: are they any good? They certainly rock, gently but determinedly, on Getaway, an instantly memorable song that older viewers would recognise as having something of the laidback, music-for-driving feel of bands like the Eagles - albeit more suited to a Ford Fiesta than a Chevy. The second number isn't nearly so good, but the great thing about the Facebook gig experience is that you can go off, stroke the pet and make a cup of tea. When I come back, a smattering of applause is developing in the band's studio as someone - from a group of mates and the cameraman, presumably - starts to get very excited about broadcasting to the world. \"It's hot in here,\" Haselden says, though it is perhaps stretching things to suggest he is sweltering in the heat generated by half a dozen people. RedBoxBlue, who formed in 2007, have done normal gigs in smaller London venues, and we know this because, like any pub band, they have developed the rocking habit of wearing sunglasses indoors. Alas, while you have to admire Haselden's chutzpah, most of his songs don't live up to his own billing; what's particularly uncertain is whether their expertly played but rather bland chuggers will appeal to the youngish, savvy crowd on the web. Still, perhaps with a bit of fine-tuning, their power ballads could be pitched more at preteen girls and older women, for whom the cherubic Haselden might become a pinup - a screensaver one, of course. However, they should be warned that the fresh-faced rocker is going to be something quite different when performing in real life. On Facebook, internet streaming means he rocks around the stage in extremely jerky, robotic movements; when fans discover that, offscreen, RedBoxBlue gyrate and dance like mere mortals, there could be the same wave of bewilderment 50s audiences experienced when they discovered Elvis wasn't black. So how does an online gig compare to the real thing? To be honest, it's never going to be the same without the crowd, and watching this felt a bit detached - like watching a sound check. Still, it's an effective means of launching new bands and could prove a genuinely exciting alternative when it comes to those big gigs you can't get a ticket to: last year's Led Zeppelin reunion concert, for instance, or a festival like Glastonbury, where live feeds to all the stages would be a real draw. As for RedBoxBlue, 26-year-old Haselden has something of a track record when it comes to using any means necessary to rock as publicly as possible. In 2006, he hit upon the wheeze of selling lines from his songs to companies in exchange for future royalties, apparently managing to charge companies such as Budweiser and TGI Fridays \u00a31,000 a line - despite being as famous as the average busker. He also auctioned on eBay the lyric: \"And when you're lost, you'll always be found\" - not exactly Dylan, but still a line it's hard to argue with - and reportedly attracted an \u00a311,000 bid from a mystery American buyer (despite an opening bid of 6p). Eyebrow-raising though these claims are, Haselden obviously understands that rock thrives on mythology and tall tales. RedBoxBlue are now apparently on the verge of signing a record deal, though at the time of going to press only a handful of the 2,000 fans a night the band claim watched the Facebook gigs had actually posted a comment. \"This is the beginning of something HUGE,\" insists a visibly thrilled \"Dan\", from his monitor-turned-rock amphitheatre for the night. Sadly, we couldn't find a beer-sodden cat who was able to speak.",
  "title": "Dave Simpson on RedBoxBlue, Facebook's first live gig",
  "lead": "Facebook has streamed its first live gig. Our critic Dave Simpson gives his verdict",
  "tags": [
    "music/popandrock",
    "music/music",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media",
    "technology/digital-music-and-audio",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "culture/culture",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "music/2008/jun/10/popandrock.facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}