{
  "content": "It was launched 10 years ago with little money, few responsibilities, and a turn-off acronymn that sounded nothing like the established snooping and spying agencies of MI5, MI6 and GCHQ. Yet, since then, the National Criminal Intelligence Service has quietly established itself as a fourth and equal member of this exclusive club, and is the focus of growing anxiety from critics about its wide-ranging powers. NCIS can bug your phone, intercept your emails and have you followed by undercover officers or criminal informants. The websites you've been browsing are not off-limits, either. In 1992, the agency had 400 staff. Now it has more than 900. Its budget this year was \u00a393m, three times the figure of five years ago. And the man who runs NCIS, director general John Abbott, wants - and will get - more. Of everything. Because NCIS straddles day-to-day policing and the secret world of the \"spooks\", it has positioned itself as the lobbying arm of the security services, leading the drive for extra investigative powers and the need for electronic communications data - phone, internet and email records - to be retained. Should we be afraid? Some MPs are fearful. So is Professor Michael Pidd, president of the operational research society, a group that advises government about access to information. In a rare interview, Abbott even admits today that the much criticised Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000, which enshrined sweeping new surveillance powers, does not go far enough. \"To a certain extent, we are playing a catch-up game with criminals,\" he says. \"People in positions of power recognise that danger. The gap between criminals and law enforcement is getting bigger and bigger. I am trying to narrow it.\" But he also insists that NCIS wants to protect rather than invade civil liberties. Alarm about his agency's activities is exaggerated and unfounded, he says. \"I fully understand concerns about the big brother state. That's why you hear me talk about the importance of checks and balances in terms of oversight. This is a crucial element of freedom and equality. \"Obviously, some of the newspaper headlines about snooping are unfair. A balanced picture is not always presented. But if you think about it, civil liberties are the flip side of what we do, that's why I am actually a great protector of people's rights.\" Abbott's core job, though, is assembling resources to fight crime. How he is doing this is the story of NCIS and the reason why, campaigners say, the agency is overdue for meaningful scrutiny. NCIS was set up to perform specific, fairly limited tasks. During the 1980s, the 43 police forces in England and Wales recognised that certain crime-fighting initiatives and investigations required a national overview. Rather than being run autonomously, a number of indexes and databases were put under the NCIS umbrella for central management. They included the national identification bureau (formerly the criminal records office), the national drugs intelligence unit, the national football intelligence unit, the animal rights index and the running of the newly enhanced police national computer. NCIS also subsumed the offices of the European police agency, Europol, and Interpol, giving an international dimension to its coordinating role. Ten years ago, the police were fighting a turf-war with M15, which was looking for additional responsibilities. If the development of NCIS was a defensive move to fend off the security service and provide police with its own intelligence gathering option, then it worked a treat. The agency has been growing inexorably since then, bolting on new departments - such as the national hi-tech crime unit - and responsibilities, including the assessment of suspicious financial dealings. NCIS now gathers intelligence on everything from the internet to immigration. The reach of its work can be gauged by the complex diagram in the back of its annual report, which shows myriad branches leading to more than 30 offices and departments, and by the range of recent newspaper stories in which it has been mentioned. NCIS has cropped up in pieces about child-porn websites, the serious sex offenders unit, kidnappings, fraud in west Africa and a smuggling operation to sell stolen luxury cars in Asia. One enduring concern is the constitutional position of NCIS. The agency has a privileged position. In common with MI5, MI6 and GCHQ, it is excluded from the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act because of its \"pivotal role towards protecting our national security\". But while notionally independent of the home office, NCIS is still answerable to the home secretary, David Blunkett, and to a police authority whose members are chosen by, and budget set by, his department. Civil liberties campaigners claim that while the organisation's powers are expanding rapidly, there is little democratic accountability and few outside NCIS and the security service really know what it does. Abbott, a former assistant chief constable who has been DG for five years, is in no hurry to reveal the details. Instead, he prefers to talk in generalities about \"coordinating information, targeting criminals and painting a picture of how they work\". The Interception of Communications Act 1985 gave agencies such as NCIS the power to intercept phone calls, but as Abbott explains, this was too restrictive in an age of emails, satellite phones, mobile phones and pagers - the tools of modern criminals. Hence the need for Ripa. It has given NCIS statutory powers to intercept communications from all those types of equipment.To do so, Abbott, or someone on his behalf, has to apply to the home secretary for a warrant and stick to the codes of practice But Tory MP Richard Shepherd has likened Ripa to \"giving the police the keys to the doors of your home\". And Professor Pidd also has serious concerns about the scope of NCIS's existing powers. \"Of course the state should have, on occasions, the right to information about individuals,\" he says. \"But what safety measures have been put in place? This is not paranoia about being found out. It's a reasonable concern in a democratic society. This government has proved as bad as any other in terms of protecting rights of privacy.\" Abbott, however, believes that the Ripa powers, far from being draconian, are not nearly strong enough. His concern is over another highly contentious issue - the obligation of service providers - telephone and internet companies - to stockpile the communications records of their users. There is, he says, no statutory need for them to retain material, only a voluntary code, currently being negotiated, that will suggest they do so for approximately 12 months. He claims that if the companies are not compelled by law to retain the data, criminals may be able to seek out \"safe haven\" providers that destroy data immediately. \"Part of the quarrel I have with the legislation is that the requirement on communication providers is not clear. There are problems with a voluntary code. It means criminals can shift from one service provider to another. I hope that it is successful but my concern is that it is not going to be. I would like to see consistency to prevent safe havens. Ultimately, we want a global system covering all service providers and we are trying to give some leadership on this. We have tried so hard, believe me.\" Abbott believes that there \"must be, will be\" an agreement in Europe over data retention \"well within five years\". He is also clear about what he wants from it. \"There is great merit for having information about subscribers [to service providers] kept for five years and call information for two years. We have to be synchronised [over] uniformity of data retention. It has got to be sooner rather than later.\" Abbott says he is not interested in reading everyone's emails. \"We couldn't even if we wanted to.\" The Ripa powers will be used \"sparingly\", he says, and insists it is \"scaremongering\" to suggest otherwise. \"What people need to recognise is that if we are going to investigate crime either before it happens to prevent it, or afterwards to detect it, the preservation, retention and access to information is crucial.\" Professor Pidd remains unconvinced. \"Well, he would say that wouldn't he?\" He urges a cautious approach to Abbott's paternalistic boast of wishing to champion civil liberties. \"Remember, the tiger always smiles before he eats you.\" \u00b7 Nick Hopkins is The Guardian's crime correspondent.",
  "title": "Smile of the tiger",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "In just 10 years the National Criminal Intelligence Service has amassed great powers. And it wants more. Its director talks to Nick Hopkins.",
  "id": "uk/2002/sep/14/privacy.nickhopkins",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}