{
  "content": "The story MPs hot or not? Whoever said politics is showbusiness for ugly people? Well, Jay Leno, but he didn't have the foresight to conceive of sexymp.co.uk, a website set up to determine the most attractive MPs. Apparently a hit within the Westminster village, the site allows users to rate MPs in a random comparison process, asking bluntly, \"Which MP would you rather have sex with?\" If you're not sufficiently nauseated at the prospect of choosing between George Osborne (currently riding high at 98th most attractive) and Eric Pickles (down the table at number 610), the knowledge that the project was created by 22-year-old Francis Boulle, mining heir and star of absurd Channel 4 series Made in Chelsea, might just have you calling for the sick bucket. The stat 13 million people... \u2026 tuned in to watch Simon Cowell's return to Britain's Got Talent. Never one to make a scene, he made his comeback by striding sheepishly on to the stage to the theme from Superman, through a cloud of theatrical fog and a spasm-inducing light show. But the audience's boos were probably unplanned. The quote Sepp Blatter \"Crisis? What is a crisis?\" Doing his best to mask the corruption meltdown inside the world's billion-dollar football governing body, the president appealed for calm amongst the baying press. But Blatter was unable to sidestep claims that Fifa is nothing but an \"organised crime family\" by suggesting the entire episode would be sorted by the \"football family\". Cue The Godfather theme tune? The tweet @HertsPolice The best way to call for calm using Twitter, following a bomb scare in the town centre, is probably not to tag your tweets #watfordbomb. Unfortunately, that's just what the social media team at Hertfordshire police did. Luckily, the later tweets confirmed the device was not viable, though they still utilised the same ominous tag. Oliver Laughland",
  "title": "Our pick of the week: The story, the stat, the quote, the tweet",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "football/sepp-blatter",
    "technology/twitter",
    "tv-and-radio/britains-got-talent"
  ],
  "lead": "Oliver Laughland on the people and stories in the media spotlight in the last seven days",
  "id": "theguardian/2011/jun/04/our-pick-of-the-week-sexy-mps",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}