{
  "content": "At the end of May, HSBC's phone and internet banking subsidiary, First Direct, introduced the world to Barry the platypus, the computer-generated, anthropomorphic star of its latest marketing campaign. Designed to reassert First Direct's identity as an unconventional alternative to traditional banks, the campaign is being tracked carefully by the bank's social media marketing team. \"We're not sure how Barry the platypus is going to go down,\" Rebecca Dye, First Direct's social media manager, told the Guardian on the eve of Barry's TV debut. \"We're really going to see what resonates.\" In the heyday of telephone banking, finding out what resonated would have been up to First Direct's call-centre staff as they chatted to customers phoning in their transactions. Today, nine out of 10 transactions at the bank are electronic, removing that opportunity for human contact. Social media presents a much-needed alternative for building relationships with today's smartphone-equipped, web-savvy consumers. \"Customers no longer use the phone, so they are no longer having that interaction with us,\" says Dye, whose team works to build engagement with customers by talking about anything and everything in their social media dialogue. \"Our Facebook is a very nice example. Mostly we talk to them about where they're going on holiday or what their children's favourite book is.\" Such conversations don't have an immediately obvious payback, so it's vital to have management buy-in that recognises the value of building trust and engagement. \"We have a really supportive management team, who really appreciate there is long-term value [in social],\" says Dye. \"For a lot of banks that's very difficult because it's getting away from the old ROI [return on investment] formulas.\" For banks without First Direct's telephone-banking history, the need for new communication channels is even more acute. In the 1990s, customers, on average, would visit their local branch at least once every other week. Today, banks are lucky to see their customers come through the door four times a year. Online and mobile banking have made physical visits redundant. After a slow start, most high street banks are getting serious about plugging the gap with social media. \"Social media is where consumers are,\" says Mark Brayton, head of branch marketing, brand and social media at Barclays. \"Listening and then responding to these conversations, in the right way and through the right social platforms, offers us an excellent engagement opportunity.\" Not all banks feel the same way, especially those with more exclusive clientele. One London-based wealth-management bank recently gave social media a firm thumbs-down, deterred by factors such as the perceived higher risk of something going awry and the extra resources it would need to invest. According to Jaroslaw Knapik, senior analyst within Ovum's financial services technology practice, this is not an uncommon attitude among banks here, who tend to be more conservative than their American and Asian counterparts. \"There's a huge potential, but there's also a high risk of not doing things right,\" he says. As a regulated industry, banks have to work within rules that are not always clearcut when it comes to social media. Customer service staff must be wary of conversations in which personal information could be divulged. Social media teams have to get buy-in from compliance, risk and legal teams, even if it means delaying a campaign until they are comfortable that the rules won't be breached. Then there's the resource that has to be made available to ensure the social-media strategy doesn't get overwhelmed by demand or derailed by events. \"I don't think we realised when we started how quickly it would grow,\" says Dye. \"There are resource implications and you need to be ready for that.\" The investment has paid off for First Direct on a couple of occasions, when a rapid response on social media helped to defuse negative sentiment. The first was when the bank's internet access was brought down late last year by a denial of service attack; the second was when customers were disappointed earlier this year by an upgrade to its mobile apps. \"By really working on building those relationships, we're building a very secure base,\" says Dye. \"If we didn't work so hard to have that [trust], when it goes wrong we'd be in a lot worse place.\" At Barclays, analysing social-media responses helped it to make rapid improvements to its Pingit mobile-banking app, launched earlier this year. \"Social media is an honesty forum,\" says Brayton. \"Its peer-to-peer nature means messages can no longer be managed in the traditional way. This allows brands to more openly respond to and engage with people.\" Risk-averse organisations should worry more about the cost of not participating in social media, warns Brayton: \"There's greater reputational risk of brands, particularly within financial services, ignoring this conversation \u2013 because it's happening regardless of whether we're present or not.\" //ends//",
  "title": "A tweeting with the bank manager",
  "lead": "Internet and mobile banking have made branch visits a thing of the past, so banks are using social media to communicate with their customers",
  "tags": [
    "business/banking",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "money/banks",
    "money/consumer-affairs"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2013/jun/17/social-media-marketing-banking-sector-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}