{
  "content": "Here's an expert panel in full flow discussing freedom of information (and the FoI Act, 10 years old in Britain). They're obviously in favour. But then \u2013 at a City University seminar last week \u2013 a questioner from the audience bowls a bouncer. Surely you're also all in favour of reading the letters Prince Charles showered on overworked ministers, demanding changes in public policy? Surely you want the supreme court to throw open Charlie's dossier next month, so we can read all about it? And one participant at the far end of the table has a problem. Well, he says, actually it was me who denied those FoI requests to see the letters. I set the whole court marathon running. My job as information commissioner also means I'm also privacy commissioner. I'm perpetually stuck balancing this against that. So this time I chose princely privacy. Now, Christopher Graham, once secretary of the BBC and director of the Advertising Standards Authority, is a shrewd, industrious operator. He performs a good balancing act. So let's play the office \u2013 statutory underpinning et al \u2013 rather than the man, and let's begin with a Mastermind kind of question. How do you tell the interception of communications commissioner from the intelligence services commissioner from the chief surveillance commissioner? How do you tell Sir Anthony May from Sir Mark Waller from Sir Christopher Rose? They're all senior retired judges, in their 70s. They all have staffs, costs and the duty of reporting once a year to the prime minister. They are the buffer zone that monitors and interrogates our secretive state. They are the panjandrums of \"proportionality\", aka \"the holding of a balance between (a) the necessity to engage in potentially intrusive conduct and (b) the anticipated amount and degree of intrusion\". That's how May put it in his interception of communications report to David Cameron last year \u2013 and the test he used in last week's special rush report (a four-month flurry) revealing that 19 British police forces had made over 600 Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act applications to access journalists' phone records during the last three years, in pursuit of 34 different investigations. Not enough consideration of \"necessity, proportionality and collateral intrusion\", concluded May, recommending that Cameron replace the current system of letting any old \"DP\" (that's designated person) set the Ripa dogs running with a tighter regime signed off by \u2013 ah! of course \u2013 a judge. In many ways, this May move can be counted as a victory for editors, who told the PM and Theresa May (no relation) that Ripa was being misused by police rooting round for whistleblowers in their own ranks: a neurotic, internalised twitch, not the vital resource in combating terrorism Ripa's founding fathers intended (as even our culture secretary now declares). And since May delivered his ruling just after the Met had declined six FoI \"vexatious\" requests from a battling Press Gazette intent on gauging the full, slapdash use of Ripa powers, such satisfaction only increased. Congratulations all round, lads \u2026 up to a point, that is. For look more broadly across the regulatory landscape. It's not just May, Waller and Rose, clutching their various balances and preparing to pass them onto some new Court of Appeal or Queen's Bench trustie. It's Lord Justice Leveson, arguing in his hallowed report for a review of Police and Criminal Evidence Act and data safeguards for journalists, so their residual protection could be further diminished: more criminal sanctions please. And there's our new friend, Sir Alan Moses, first chair of the Independent Press Standards Organisation, another distinguished retired judge, appointed by Lord (Simon) Brown, a former Supreme Court judge and intelligence services commissioner, and Lord (Nicholas) Phillips, founding president of the supreme court. We're almost back to Charlie's dossier now. What goes around, comes around. But there's a serious point as the bewigged waltz whirls on. This is Diversity Time. More women in top jobs. More black talent in the media. More inquiring minds in Rotherham or Dolphin Square. More state school kids in every walk of political/society life. It's an era where brilliant, retired judges can't be allowed to run child abuse inquiries, where the only judges who survive scrutiny are imported from New Zealand. Yet, when something important on the regulation front crops up, here comes \u2013 usually Oxbridge, invariably elderly \u2013 justice. Retired judges aren't instinctive tabloid readers, nor naturally digitally savvy. They evaluate facts given to them: they don't root around for facts themselves. May was not alarmed by police uncovering journalists' sources last year. This year, because the information has changed, so has the mood music. You can, of course, find exceptions amid judicial rule. Perhaps the feistily independent Moses is one: and Graham, who has never worn a robe, is intelligently engaged. But the business of codes, standards, ethics and the rest, of balancing buffers, continues to boom. And so, inevitably, does the business of public interest interpretation, of accepted norms, of an experience of life that starts and ends in the Strand. Tim Crook, head of media law and ethics at Goldsmiths, wrote on The Conversation website the other day that \"there is a shameful litany of ways in which journalists' ability to perform [their] key role is being compromised and undermined\". It's hard to disagree. The pressure for weighing one thing against another, and then doing nothing, is relentless. This isn't the age of publish and be damned; this is the age of vexatious mumbling in which it takes a Snowden to light the touch-paper of GCHQ disclosure and NSA reform. An age governed by Lord Justice Ubiquity (retd).",
  "title": "FoI: Little justice in the legacy of our learned friends",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "politics/freedomofinformation",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/leveson-report",
    "us-news/edward-snowden",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "Peter Preston: From Leveson to Ripa to Snowden, the distinct and deadening influence of a retired senior judiciary on public life is palpable",
  "id": "media/2015/feb/08/peter-preston-on-press-and-broadcasting",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}