{
  "content": "Beijing has denied involvement in cyber attacks and defended its right to punish people who challenge party rule online as it continues a fight-back against criticism of its internet policies. \"Any accusation that the Chinese government participated in cyber attacks, either in an explicit or indirect way, is groundless and aims to denigrate China. We are firmly opposed to that,\" an unidentified spokesman from the ministry of industry and information technology told the state news agency, Xinhua. The spokesman did not refer directly to Google's announcement, in which the firm said it was no longer willing to censor its Chinese service. Google had cited an intrusion targeting human rights activists' email accounts and tougher online censorship as reasons behind its decision. The remarks are the most direct official response on the issue, although the government has previously said that it \"resolutely opposes\" hacking and criticised \"baseless\" claims. The spokesman added that China was the biggest victim of such attacks, with hackers targeting more than 42,000 websites last year. Using figures from the Internet Society of China, he said cyber attacks from overseas increased 148% from 2007 to 2008, affecting \"sectors of finance, transportation and energy, which posed severe harm to economic development and people's lives\". Separately, a Chinese internet security official told Xinhua that Google had yet to report its complaints to them. \"We have been hoping that Google will contact us so that we could have details on this issue and provide them help if necessary,\" said Zhou Yonglin, deputy chief of operations at the China national computer network emergency response technical team. Google reported a massive and sophisticated attack which originated in China, but has chosen not to say \"one way or the other\" whether it believes hackers were sponsored or approved by Beijing. Zhou also said most hacking of Chinese computers originated from the US. The Chinese government has toughened its stance since Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, challenged it on the issue last week. She criticised internet censorship, named China as one of several countries where there had been \"a spike in threats to the free flow of information\" recently, and urged Beijing to investigate the Google attacks fully and openly. The foreign ministry warned that bilateral relations were being harmed and state media have run several articles attacking US internet policy. Yesterday a commentary in the People's Daily, the Communist party newspaper, accused the US of using social media, such as Twitter and YouTube, to stir up unrest in Iran. In separate comments, carried on a government website today, a spokesperson for the state council information office said China \"bans using the internet to subvert state power and wreck national unity, to incite ethnic hatred and division, to promote cults and to distribute content that is pornographic, salacious, violent or terrorist\". The spokesperson added: \"China has an ample legal basis for punishing such harmful content, and there is no room for doubting this. This is completely different from so-called restriction of internet freedom.\" The state council information office is the cabinet arm of China's propaganda apparatus and one of several agencies that control the internet. China has prosecuted dissidents and advocates of self-rule in Tibet who have challenged Communist party policies online.",
  "title": "China denies involvement in cyber attacks on Google",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/google",
    "world/china",
    "world/censorship",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/hacking",
    "world/world",
    "world/asia-pacific"
  ],
  "lead": "Beijing defends right to punish those who challenge party rule online following Google's decision to stop censoring in China",
  "id": "technology/2010/jan/25/china-denies-cyber-attacks-google",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}