{
  "content": "The US department-store chain Nordstrom famously gave new starters an 8in by 5in card as an employee handbook. As well as welcoming the employee and outlining the company's commitment to customer service, it read simply: \"Rule 1: Use best judgment in all situations. There will be no additional rules.\" Although this sounds like a recipe for chaos, it was successful because the \"handbook\" stressed the primary corporate aim while encouraging employees to interpret the rule however they saw fit. Nordstrom has been lauded for recognising that trust is often cheaper than control when it comes to employee activity. It's also more effective in other ways. An exhaustive list of commandments is rarely the best way to influence behaviour. Prescriptive rules have the effect of infantilising staff, and make it harder for them to adapt to different situations. This goes as much for digital communication as for selling socks. Social media rules that ban journalists from revealing any personal opinions make a mockery of professional journalism. A good journalist should be able to support a particular football team at the weekend, but put aside their loyalties when reporting on another. In my view, asking journalists to pretend to be objective, opinionless newsbots is both deceiving and insulting to the reader. We need to trust that a reader can figure out that a writer expressing irritation on Twitter at an episode of the Apprentice isn't the same as an editorial review. Last week we put out some advice for staff on using social media. We aimed for flexible, commonsense guidelines which treat both staff and readers with maturity, meaning journalists can maintain editorial standards while engaging communities of interest, expertise and experience around our content. For several years, the Guardian has provided training, legal guidance and guidelines for digital engagement, to be used by staff in conjunction with established company policies about internet use. The guidelines are regularly updated to reflect best current knowledge. In the interests of transparency, we published a synopsis of the most recent update online. At the heart of our guidelines is a simple idea that also informs the community standards governing user participation: interaction enriches stories, and staff as well as users have a part to play in ensuring the quality of engagement matches that of our journalism. Like the Nordstrom handbook, we're trusting staff to follow the spirit, not just the letter, of our guidelines. The Guardian has been embracing developments in digital interaction for more than 11 years. We now see around half a million comments a month added to our website, and have more than 2 million followers across 50 or so official Twitter accounts (such as @guardiantech and @guardiannews) \u2013 a recent study put us top of a list of news organisations that engage readers. When Alan Rusbridger talked in January's Cudlipp lecture about a new era of mutualisation, he referred to the increasing porosity of the line between journalists and readers. Mutualisation for journalists means collaborating with readers to understand, explore or reflect situations, topics and perspectives. But interaction is an evolving landscape \u2013 sites, skills and situations change, as well as social patterns and norms. Since any map would only be briefly relevant, it makes more sense to educate and inform explorers, providing knowledge and skills which can be used flexibly and contextually to navigate the shifting terrain. In common with the BBC, which also offers \"education on the risks and dangers for journalists, but not [a] set of fixed rules of how journalists can use social media\", the Guardian's approach aims to inform and inspire journalists to use the tools available to all of us to encourage constructive collaboration. It's no coincidence that the first word of the guidelines is \"participate\". It's a call to action for journalists not just to use digital and social media platforms as a way of broadcasting our work further than ever, but also to engage with readers over contexts of mutual interest, for mutual benefit.",
  "title": "Open door: The Guardian's head of digital engagement on ... the\u00a0rules of participation",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/theguardian",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Meg Pickard: The Guardian's head of digital engagement on ... the rules of participation",
  "id": "commentisfree/2010/nov/01/digital-engagement-rules-of-participation",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}