{
  "content": "Microsoft has built three huge businesses using the same technique: it packages together a suite of software, simplifies it and sells it at a low price. This has worked on the desktop with Windows (worth $17bn [\u00a311.4bn] in 2008) and Office ($19bn), and in the data centre with Windows Server and back-office tools ($13bn). Now it's trying to do it again online, with last week's launch of Wave 3. Windows packaged MS DOS, the Windows user interface, a video player, a web browser and other applications. Wave 3 is packaging MSN Messenger and Hotmail with a broad collection of software and online services, although the new versions are called Windows Live Messenger and Windows Live Mail. If you use one of these - and more than 460 million people use Messenger - then Microsoft hopes to get you to use all the others \"by making it easy to keep your life in sync\", in the words of Microsoft Live's Brian Groth. \"That's our vision.\" Wave 3 aims to consolidate your online life via a home page that looks quite like Facebook, and also offers social networking and photo-sharing. You can post a profile, see your mail, messages, notes, news and events, and you can also start small groups. The Live Services package provides generous mail storage (5GB at the moment), 25GB of space for your photo gallery, the chance to blog on Spaces, plus Events, Groups, a calendar and a simple contacts book. The same contacts are available to all the applications, your desktop PC and your mobile phone (via Active Sync). And you can get to all your stuff with one Live ID password, aka Passport. To support all these Live Services from Windows, there's a suite of Live Essentials software. This includes the Mail, Messenger, Writer (for blogging) and Photo Gallery applications, plus a toolbar. These desktop programs synchronise with the online applications, so you get the best of both worlds. Finally, to support the whole infrastructure, there's Windows Azure, Microsoft's cloud computing platform, running on a network of giant data centres. Like Windows and Office, Wave 3 is also a \"platform play\". Microsoft wants other companies to develop applications for Live, or plug in their existing applications. There's a list of the Live Framework services that external developers can use at dev.live.com. Jumpstart 2009 developer training events are being organised in places as far afield as Amsterdam, Warsaw, Seoul, Sydney and Beijing. Microsoft says it is already working with Twitter, Flickr, iLike, Yelp, StumbleUpon, WordPress and other suppliers. The appeal, of course, is easy access to Live's 500 million or so users. So far, Microsoft's online division has not been very successful: in 2008, for example, it lost $1.2bn on revenues of just $3.2bn. With Wave 3, however, Microsoft is on more familiar ground. It's good at building platforms, and it has the money and the will to tackle huge projects like Wave 3 that nobody else would attempt. But in this case, there's a flaw in the strategy of \"pile 'em high, sell 'em cheap\". With Wave 3, the rival offerings from Google, Yahoo and others are already free. With Windows and Office, Microsoft was able to turn market share into long-term profits. With Wave 3, it may just be investing a lot of money to create long-term losses. It's a brave bet, but will it work? We shall see.",
  "title": "Microsoft's Wave 3 is a brave bet - but will it work?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/microsoft",
    "technology/windows",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Wave 3 aims to consolidate your online life via a home page that looks quite a lot like Facebook",
  "id": "technology/2008/dec/11/microsoft-wave-3-social-networking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}