{
  "content": "With the majority of today's offices being open plan, you and your work colleagues share most of your daily time together as one big happy family \u2013 or do you? Previous studies have shown that open-plan working encourages teamwork and creativity, as well as making the sharing of information easier. But most workstations are not properly soundproofed, and some are so open there is no visual or acoustic boundary at all, resulting in perpetual distractions to the diligent worker. The New York Times reported last month that after surveying 65,000 people over the past decade in North America, Europe, Africa and Australia, researchers at the University of California found thatmore than half of office workers are dissatisfied with the low level of \"speech privacy\" in an open-plan work environment, making it \"the leading complaint in offices everywhere\". The reality of working in an open-plan office is that your privacy is greatly reduced. Your business becomes everyone's business, and vice versa. It is not uncommon for employees in such circumstances to wear headphones to try and mask out background noise or to be creative with files and books as makeshift partitions. But however you try and barricade yourself in, you will not escape from your co-worker standing alongside your desk talking in a loud voice to another colleague, shouting across one desk to another person, or being excessively loud on the phone. This is before you get to the dreaded mobile ringtone that pierces your eardrums with predictable regularity. And then there's your co-workers picking up items from your desk without returning them, or eating smelly food at lunchtime. These are all annoying activities that have come top in previous surveys asking workers what they found most irritating about their colleagues. And there is more. Surveys have found that employees get irritated by others peeking at their desk to see what they were doing, or by trying to eavesdrop on a private conversation (even if they are speaking quietly). Picking your nose and biting your nails also causes irritation to others. Some men get irked by the excessive use of perfume by women; another regular complaint is bad body odour, where perhaps leaving a bottle of perfume on that person's desk might give the appropriate hint. What also comes with lack of privacy in an open-plan office is your inability to hide what you are doing on your computer. Accessing Facebook or privately emailing your friends and family becomes much more difficult. And tensions can rise if you spot your work colleague spending an excessive amount of time conducting private affairs on their computer when they should be working. Is it your business to say anything or not? I have seen many employees where an open-plan working environment works against them. This includes where they have fallen out with a work colleague but still have to sit opposite or near that person. If you are working as part of a team it is not always logistically possible to be moved in such circumstances, and the ripple effects to other members of staff and the working atmosphere is often soon felt. If you do find yourself in a situation where the open-plan working environment is affecting your work, you should in the first instance have a quiet word with the colleague who is causing offence. They may be receptive to putting their phone on vibrate, or refraining from eating smelly food, for example. If you engage them in the right way they shouldn't take offence. Ultimately, you can speak to your line manager and lodge a grievance. But this is unlikely to resolve itself where you have had a major and insoluble falling out with a colleague working in a nearby open space. It's time to insist on an individual office in such circumstances, or one of you may have to start looking around for a new job. Have you ever been adversely affected by a work colleague in an open-plan office? If so, how did you resolve it? \u2022 Philip Landau is an employment lawyer with Landau Zeffertt Weir Solicitors",
  "title": "Do you have a problem with open-plan offices?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "money/work-and-careers",
    "money/money",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "This familiar office layout is designed to encourage teamwork, but it also causes complaints over privacy and distraction",
  "id": "money/work-blog/2012/jun/26/problem-open-plan-offices",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}