{
  "content": "\"I can't in all honesty recommend 'find out you're maybe dying' as a general summer plan, but it does focus the mind wonderfully,\" says journalist John Underwood on his JustGiving page. A few weeks ago, Underwood was diagnosed with a very rare, late-stage lymphoma. Since then he has raised more than \u00a359,000 by tweeting and blogging about his experience of the disease and cancer wards. Oh, and by wearing silly hats with his girlfriend Ella Risbridger every time they reach a fundraising target. To have raised this amount of money in such a short amount of time is no mean feat. Underwood raised more than \u00a322,000 in the first 48 hours for blood cancer charity Anthony Nolan. So, why has this campaign been so successful? Both Underwood and Risbridger, a food blogger, have been completely candid about their experience. The honesty in their blogposts and tweets \u2013 even if it's just sharing pictures of beige hospital food or the discomfort of having blood taken \u2013 helps people relate to what they are going through. And their positivity, and sometimes vulnerability, make people want to help Underwood and others like him. If you follow them on Twitter, it's an emotional journey \u2013 there is humour, fear, hope and a fair amount of swearing. We saw this with Stephen Sutton too, who died of cancer last year. Here was a young man who was terminally ill and who spoke so openly about what he was experiencing through his blog, Facebook page and Twitter that he inspired people from around the world to donate to the Teenage Cancer Trust and help him tick off the 46 things on his bucket list. His JustGiving page has raised over \u00a34.5m and is still receiving regular donations. Like Sutton's case, the public want to support Underwood and help him reach his fundraising goal. His page has received donations from 23 countries. He might not realise it, but he is a natural fundraiser. Here's why: 1. It's not just about him. First of all, he's passionate about raising money for Anthony Nolan because it might help find him a donor and save his life. And not just his, but others too. 2. He's not afraid to ask. Underwood knows that in order to raise money you have to ask for it and make it easy for people to give. 3. The couple share milestones. The public can stay up to date with their fundraising progress. 4. Underwood regularly thanks donors. As a fundraiser, there is nothing more important than thanking those who have donated. Anthony Nolan has supported and encouraged this fundraising campaign, but at a respectful distance. While the charity understands it is not its story, it is happy to share the impact that Underwood and Risbridger are making. Traffic to the charity's website has increased by 75% compared to the previous week and the number of people applying to join the stem cell register has increased by 46%. We're all human. So when someone like John Underwood (and Ella Risbridger for that matter) bares their soul for all to see, it moves us to want to help - whether that's by making a donation, joining a stem cell register or just tweeting support.",
  "title": "Why cancer patient John Underwood's fundraising drive is touching hearts",
  "lead": "The journalist has blogged and tweeted from hospital and raised more than \u00a359,000 for charity",
  "tags": [
    "voluntary-sector-network/fundraising",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network-blog",
    "voluntary-sector-network/communications",
    "society/charities",
    "society/society",
    "society/voluntarysector",
    "media/social-media",
    "society/cancer",
    "media/digital-media",
    "society/health",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/blogging"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "voluntary-sector-network/2015/aug/13/john-underwood-cancer-fundraising-drive-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}