{
  "content": "Facebook had been rumoured to be looking at location-based service Hot Potato since July and chose Friday - two days after the Facebook Places launch - to confirm the deal. Hot Potato is a halfway house between Foursquare, Twitter and Facebook Like. Users share what they are doing - whether a venue, activity, song, game or TV show - and the site lists trending terms. Its original focus was more on events, but it later broadened to any activity. Not for long, however, because Facebook is closing the service in the next month and intergrating the staff to its teams - what has become known as an 'acq-hire'. MediaMemo put the deal at between $10-$15m when the deal first emerged, while Facebook confirmed it and said \"admired how Hot Potato is helping people socialise around live events\". Hot Potato had raised $1.42m funding in November last year when it launched. Hot Potato's own blog post, which was also careful to say its user data will be deleted and not kept by Facebook, said: \"This wasn't an easy decision, especially since we've built up a base of dedicated users. If Hot Potato was going to sell to anyone, Facebook was the natural choice. Facebook is still small, moves fast, provides a great supportive environment for people to be entrepreneurial, and most importantly, Facebook builds great products. We're looking forward to joining their team.\" Looking further ahead, the influence of  Hot Potato's service could mean applying their experience with social check-ins across Facebook's social activity. 'Liked' pages are at the moment only likeable if they have the button, while Hot Potato lets users create their own activity or subject to check into, or like, effectively. There's also a more real time element to Hot Potato than Like, and that's something else that could be refined a little more for a Facebook equivalent of trending topics. Right now, much of that activity is hidden.",
  "title": "Facebook buys check-in service Hot Potato",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/location-based-services",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Facebook had been rumoured to be looking at location-based service Hot Potato since July and chose Friday - two days after the Facebook Places launch - to confirm the deal. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "technology/pda/2010/aug/23/facebook-hot-potato",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}