{
  "content": "The USA Freedom Act is likely to pass Congress early this week. It is the first significant rollback of NSA surveillance that has been approved. Controversial provisions of the Patriot Act will expire at midnight. Many of them will come back into effect once President Obama signs the USA Freedom Act and it is unclear how much of an impediment it will be to law enforcement efforts to monitor terrorism. Despite the fact Rand Paul is not getting the reforms he desired, this is still a big win for the Kentucky Republican. While Paul would likely describe the NSA reforms in the USA Freedom Act as deeply inadequate, the Kentucky senator has forced Mitch McConnell and many Republicans to support a bill that they found anathema just a week ago. In the United States Senate, it's all about procedure and not issues. While to many Americans, the debate about NSA surveillance revolved around fundamental questions about balancing liberty and security, the issues on Capitol Hill tonight were all about unanimous consent agreements and motions to consider to motions to proceed. Before it adjourned, Mitch McConnell amends USA Freedom and files for cloture. It looks like we'll have a final vote on Tuesday. If you're curious, there is one Democrat on the Senate floor as McConnell amends the USA Freedom Act: Chris Murphy of Connecticut. Mitch McConnell showed up on the floor all by himself and advances USA Freedom Act to achieve cloture. He then amends it with only one other senator there. Mitch McConnell just came back on the floor. Things could be getting lively. Oklahoma Senator Jim Inhofe just put out a statement where he said: \"Gen. Michael Hayden and Gen. Keith Alexander, both former directors of the NSA, and others have confirmed to me personally that at least one of the three terrorist attacks on 9/11 could have been avoided, and the attack on the USS Cole could have been prevented entirely, if the current programs had been in place.\" He added \"I think about my 20 kids and grandkids, and I do not want to endanger them nor the lives of Oklahomans by allowing lawful intelligence tools to just evaporate at the stroke of midnight. The only option left is the USA Freedom Act and its amendments.\" One picture of Rand Paul leaving the Senate with Justin Amash and Tom Massie is drawing comparisons to the movie Reservoir Dogs. Amash tweeted the picture earlier tonight: And the great @darth modified it after a number of tweets about it: If you need a soundtrack to appreciate these, this is Little Green Bag by the George Baker Selection. Senator Dianne Feinstein, who is the ranking Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, issued a statement Sunday night slamming Rand Paul. The need for investigators to collect intelligence on known or suspected terrorists can't be overstated. Our national security \u2013 not to mention the safety of all Americans \u2013 is at stake. \"That's why it's so irresponsible for one senator to prevent action to extend and reform three key counterterrorism tools for his own political gain. Holding critical national security programs hostage to raise political donations is outrageous, but that's where we stand today. While most Democrats have going after Mitch McConnell for creating what Harry Reid called \"a manufactured crisis\" earlier today, Feinstein seems to be echoing John McCain in her criticisms of Paul. If you're wondering how presidential candidates voted tonight on USA Freedom Act, here's the list: Independent Bernie Sanders and Republican Ted Cruz were both yes votes. Republicans Marco Rubio and Rand Paul were both no votes (albeit for very different reasons). And Republican Lindsey Graham just didn't show up. He is scheduled to formally announce his presidential candidacy tomorrow in his home town of Central, South Carolina. The Senate floor has now gone quiet as Ron Wyden and Martin Heinrich have ended their debate and we are into a quorum call now. John McCain may be 78-years-old but he is active on social media. While criticizing Rand Paul tonight, the Arizona Republican noted \"I just saw a tweet from Senator Paul saying take a selfie of yourself while watching Senator Paul on the floor tonight\" which McCain saw as another example of what he calls Paul's self promotion. When The Guardian followed up to ask if McCain himself would take a selfie, the Arizona Republican responded \"I'm not good looking enough to enjoy that.\" It doesn't appear there will be any more votes tonight as the USA Freedom Act continues to go through the Senate's procedural process. Instead, votes on any amendments as well as final passage will come on Tuesday. The Guardian's first story on the vote tonight is now up. It's bylined by Dan Roberts and myself in Washington and Pulitzer Prize winner Spencer Ackerman in New York. You should check it out but this is a highlight: Republican senator Rand Paul forced at least a temporary shutdown of sweeping US surveillance powers on Sunday night after refusing to allow an accelerated vote on compromise legislation designed to more narrowly restrain the National Security Agency. In a double blow for Washington security hawks, represented by embattled Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell, it now looks likely that Congress will have to wait several days before passing that bill, the USA Freedom Act. Rand Paul has left the building so we won't be seeing any more fiery rhetoric from him tonight. Instead, Oregon Democrat Ron Wyden is on the floor. While Wyden is also a vocal NSA critic, it's unlikely anyone has ever accused him of demagoguery. Ted Cruz is being careful to avoid any possible criticism of Rand Paul to reporters, insisting that his colleague is \"a good man.\" However, he offered his concerns about a possible lapse in these provisions to reporters about 20 minutes ago outside the Senate chamber. \"I disagree with allowing key provisions of federal law to expire that enable federal law enforcement to target radical Islamic terrorists,\" said Cruz. Rand Paul is throwing some shade on Republican colleagues on the Senate floor. \"Some of them I think secretly want an attack on the United States so they can blame it on me,\" Paul said. Republican Dean Heller of Nevada credited The Guardian's reporting on Edward Snowden for the USA Freedom Act finally moving towards passage. He told reporters: \"It played a role, no doubt it played a role. It was huge obviously, when it occurred.\" He added \"I think it played the same role for me as it did for most of the American people, who were surprised and stunned that the government had this sort of access to this kind of data.\" In a stunning reversal from last week's drama, the USA Freedom Act was passed by a vote of 77-17. The bill, which passed the House overwhelmingly several weeks ago will now move forward and is likely to receive a final vote on Tuesday. The bill fell three votes short of the needed supermajority to advance last week but with the clock ticking on controversial provisions of the Patriot Act, supporters of NSA surveillance thought that the proposed reforms were better than letting the program expire entirely. You can read our full report here. The Senate vote on cloture on USA Freedom Act is wrapping to close right now. We will bring you the vote tally when it is there but it looks like the bill will advance by an overwhelming bipartisan margin with only about 20 Republicans opposed. One fun tidbit during McConnell's speech is that Kansas Republican Pat Roberts' cell phone went off. His ring tone is the song \"Let It Go\" from the movie Frozen. This is not the first time Roberts' cellphone has interrupted Senate business by blaring \"Let It Go.\" It looks like we're moving towards the first procedural vote of the night as McConnell concedes that USA Freedom Act, a bill he long fought, is \"the only realistic way forward.\" Mitch McConnell just tried to push through an extension of the two less controversial expiring provisions of the Patriot Act. The first is the \"lone wolf\" provision that allows the government to go after potential terrorists who are not affiliated with organized groups and are thus \"lone wolves.\" The second provides for roving wiretaps so that the government doesn't need to get a new warrant every time that a terrorist tries to switch cell phones. Rand Paul objected to both. It looks like the plan in the Senate is just to wait out Rand Paul and allow provisions of the Patriot Act to temporarily lapse for a few days. According to Senator John Cornyn, Republican senators will offer amendments to strengthen the USA Freedom Act and then go on to a cloture vote to end debate tonight. Unless Rand Paul agrees, which won't happen, it'll put off a final vote until Tuesday at the earliest. John McCain is already taking shots at Rand Paul. He took another jibe at the Kentucky Republican about 25 minutes ago to reporters when offered to teach Paul the rules of the Senate. \"It's entertaining that the senator from Kentucky doesn't know the rules of the Senate yet\" said McCain. \"I'd be glad to instruct him if he'd seek out my counsel.\" Republicans are now holding a closed meeting to discuss next step forward and momentum seems to be building around taking the USA Freedom Act as is. If you were expecting a quiet night, it's not going to happen. Rand Paul is channelling Howard Beale by proclaiming \"I'm not going to take it any more\" in going after what he calls \"Barack Obama's illegal government surveillance.\" This is after a somewhat heated exchange with John McCain on the floor. The Senate galleries are filling up too with even more spectators in \"Stand With Rand\" t-shirts. The Senate public gallery is getting filled up as people come in to watch the show, including a number of Rand Paul fans, while two of Paul's most stalwart allies in the House are watching from the floor. Rand Paul's presidential campaign is still ferociously fundraising over the NSA debate in the Senate. His campaign sent out a fundraising email with the subject line \"I'm forcing the Patriot Act to expire\" Interestingly, the email is targeted at Obama, not Mitch McConnell. Paul's campaign writes: \"The showdown over illegal NSA spying is today. President Obama has declared \"\u2026I expect them to take action and take action swiftly.\" But Rand is standing up to President Obama's demands by forcing illegal NSA spying to expire. He won't allow Congress to rush a bill through the Senate that extends the NSA's bulk data collection program. And the attacks are sure to escalate now that Rand stood up to President Obama. So he's counting on you to be in his corner as this fight continues. Please take a few moments to read the email below for more details about Rand's showdown with President Obama and add your name to Stand with Rand.\" Obama supports the compromise USA Freedom Act which fell three votes short of the necessary supermajority last week while Mitch McConnell has been opposed. Harry Reid is now on the floor slamming Mitch McConnell for \"not having a plan\" and creating this crisis via a strategy of brinksmanship. Reid says \"I'm a little bit flummoxed\" by McConnell's plans or lack thereof. While he is insisting that extension of some of the Patriot Act's powers are \"vitally important,\" he's not taking any shots at Rand Paul. Reid says \"I disagree with the junior senator from Kentucky but we're not in the mess we're in today because of the junior senator from Kentucky, we're in the mess that we're in today because of the Majority Leader.\" And the Senate is now in session with Mitch McConnell delivering a tribute to Beau Biden, the son of Vice President Joe Biden, who passed away last night. So far, there are only a handful of senators on the floor. McConnell and Dan Coats of Indiana representing the GOP and Minority Leader Harry Reid and Patrick Leahy, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee representing their party. Speaker John Boehner issued a statement this afternoon urging the Senate to pass the USA Freedom Act. Boehner said \"\"Al Qaeda, ISIL and other terrorists around the globe continue to plot attacks on America and our allies. Anyone who is satisfied with letting this critical intelligence capability go dark isn't taking the terrorist threat seriously. I'd urge the Senate to pass the bipartisan USA Freedom Act, and do so expeditiously.\" The Speaker of the House has played his own understated role in this debate. By refusing to call his chamber back into session before Monday, he's made things much more difficult for Senate Republicans by greatly limiting their options as any compromise besides USA Freedom would require a vote in the House. Will the surveillance state turn into a pumpkin at midnight? Controversial provisions of the Patriot Act are set to expire tonight if the Senate doesn't reach a compromise on government surveillance in a rare Sunday session. We are inside Congress with all the latest updates on the fate of the first major reform package since the Edward Snowden revelations \u2013 and what another marathon legislative session could mean for the future of intelligence. The USA Freedom Act, a bipartisan compromise that would ban the bulk collection exposed by Snowden and is overwhelmingly backed in the House of Representatives, fell three votes short of advancing in another marathon nine days ago. A two-month extension of government surveillance proposed by supporters of the status quo also fell short of the 60-vote supermajority needed to start debate on a bill in the Senate. That night ended when Kentucky Republican Rand Paul, a stalwart opponent of government surveillance and what he perceives to be the weak compromise language of the USA Freedom Act, successfully blocked even a short-term extension of the Patriot Act by just one day. Tonight, Paul plans to get to take the spotlight again. The presidential candidate has since pledged to do all he can to delay any legislation that doesn't meet his goals. \"I will force the expiration of the NSA illegal spy program,\" he has promised. Under Senate rules, the result is that \u2013 barring a deal \u2013 no vote would occur until Tuesday morning at 2am. The question now is whether that deal can be reached. While Senate Republicans have long been wary of the USA Freedom Act, its approval by the House means that it is the only vehicle to avoid a total shutdown of these government surveillance powers. Any other legislation approved by the Senate would require a vote by the House, which is not scheduled to convene until Monday afternoon, after the controversial provisions of the Patriot Act expire. It's looking to be a long night in Washington, but opponents of any extension or compromise have one big advantage: If nothing happens, these provisions expire \u2013 and nothing comes more naturally to Congress than doing nothing.",
  "title": "NSA reform advances as Senate moves to vote on USA Freedom Act \u2013 as it happened",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "us-news/nsa",
    "world/surveillance",
    "world/privacy",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "us-news/us-politics",
    "us-news/us-congress",
    "us-news/us-senate",
    "us-news/rand-paul",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Patriot Act provisions covering bulk collection of phone records expire at midnight \u2013 will Rand Paul stand firm or can a compromise be reached?",
  "id": "us-news/live/2015/may/31/nsa-patriot-act-surveillance-reform-usa-freedom-live",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}