{
  "content": "The Press Complaints Commission has ruled no further action should be taken against FHM over a bad taste article about the death of mountaineers on Mount Everest, after the magazine agreed to publish a correction and apology. Partners of two of the men featured in the article \"Death Mountain\" who both lost their lives while attempting to scale Everest, complained to the watchdog that the piece was inaccurate and an intrusion into their grief and shock, in breach of the PCC's code of practice. The widow of climber Mal Duff and the partner of photographer Dr Bruce Herrod both wanted the magazine to publish an apology, which it has agreed to do in its January edition. Liz Duff and Sue Thompson complained to the PCC after the magazine's editor, David Davies, issued a private apology to the women and offered to donate \u00a3500 to the Mount Everest fund. Ms Thompson dismissed Davies's initial response as \"derisory\". The women said the article, which included a series of vignettes on unsuccessful attempts to climb Everest to mark the 50th anniversary of Sir Edmund Hillary's successful ascent, was inaccurate and misleading where their partners were concerned. Ms Thompson said the description of Dr Herrod as a \"careless climber\" was substantially inaccurate, as by all accounts he had taken proper precautions, while both women asserted the cause of death of their partners had never been ascertained. They added the feature was gratuitously distasteful and ridiculed their partners' deaths. In its defence, the magazine argued the article was intended to highlight the dangers of attempting to climb a mountain such as Everest unprepared, and added it had taken care not to publish inaccuracies, and had issued private apologies when it realised the two women had been offended. Davies attempted to resolve the matter by offering to publish an apology and a correction, but while one of the women accepted his offer, the other did not feel it was satisfactory, and they decided to take the matter before the PCC. While expressing its sympathy to the partners, the commission said it could only come to a decision under the terms of its code of practice, which does not cover matters of taste and offensiveness. The PCC said it was only able to look at the remedial action taken by the magazine, and judged that the wording of the apology it offered to publish addressed the women's concerns sufficiently. It therefore ruled that no further action should be taken against the magazine. Earlier this month the advertising watchdog banned a suggestive advertising campaign for FHM that appeared to show a woman performing oral sex on a man. And in October 2002, FHM Australia was forced to pulp thousands of copies after it published a humorous article about the 1989 Hillsborough football stadium tragedy, which attracted a flood of complaints saying it had turned the death of 96 people into a sick joke. In a further embarrassing twist, the magazine was forced to apologise for the blunder twice, because its first apology was deemed too weak. FHM is the best-selling mainstream men's magazine in the UK, with an average monthly circulation of 600,568, according to the latest official figures. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857",
  "title": "FHM escapes further censure over Everest gaffe",
  "lead": "8.30am: The Press Complaints Commission has ruled no further action should be taken against FHM over a bad taste article about the death of mountaineers on Mount Everest. By Ciar Byrne",
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/nov/13/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}