{
  "content": "National newspapers, including the Guardian, are to challenge a request by state prosecutors that parts of the trial of the former MI5 officer, David Shayler, must be held in secret, it emerged yesterday. The prosecution decided to apply for secret hearings after it discovered that Mr Shayler will defend himself at the trial which is due to start at the Old Bailey next Monday. It says it is concerned that he will make fresh disclosures to the jury to back up his claim that he acted in the public interest when he revealed information about MI5. The Guardian, Times, Mirror, the Daily Mail and Daily Express groups, and the BBC, argue that the charges facing Mr Shayler relate to allegations which have already been disclosed and that as a matter of principle the media should not be gagged in advance of his trial. Mr Shayler faces three charges - two for breaching section 1 of the Official Secrets Act (disclosing documents and information about the work of MI5) and one for breaching section 4 of the act (disclosing information about telephone taps, including surveillance of a journalist). They relate to disclosures, published in a national newspaper in 1997, about MI5 holding files on prominent Labour politicians, including Peter Mandelson and Jack Straw, whom the agency once considered potentially subversive, and how it tracked the movements of a Libyan official suspected of being an intelligence agent. Mr Shayler subsequently made further allegations, including a claim that MI6 was involved in a plot to assassinate the Libyan leader, Colonel Gadafy, though these were not added to the charges against him. The prosecution also intends to produce public interest immunity certificates requesting the trial judge, Mr Justice Moses, to allow four MI5 officers who are due to give evidence to remain anonymous. The officers are known as Mr A, B, C and D. The prosecution wants the officers to be screened from the press and the public when they give evidence. The high court, court of appeal, and the law lords, have all ruled that under the Official Secrets Act Mr Shayler has no case to argue. The courts have ruled that he cannot claim that he disclosed intelligence information either in the public interest or out of necessity, and that the Secrets Act is compatible with the Human Rights Act. Mr Shayler believes his decision to dismiss his barrister, Geoffrey Robertson QC, and defend himself means he will be freer to argue his case than lawyers whose hands are tied by earlier court rulings. As a result of the court rulings that he has no case to argue, there will be little choice for the trial judge, Alan Moses, but to direct the jury to convict. This would leave his lawyer no argument in law and only the chance to make pleas in mitigation. Mr Shayler will continue to be advised by his solicitor, John Wadham, director of the civil rights group Liberty. Mr Wadham advised Pat Pottle and Michael Randle who were acquitted in 1991 when they conducted their own defence after admitting helping the spy George Blake escape from jail.",
  "title": "Press challenges MI5 trial secrecy",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/davidshayler",
    "politics/freedomofinformation",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world",
    "uk/mi5",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "National newspapers  including the Guardian re to challenge a request by state prosecutors that parts of the trial of former MI5 officer David Shayler must be held in secret, reports Richard Norton-Taylor",
  "id": "media/2002/oct/03/privacy.davidshayler",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}