{
  "content": "Did anything change? Remember the day four years ago when Rupert Murdoch appeared in parliament to answer to his newspapers' phone hacking, and he called it \"the most humble day of my life?\" No one in their right mind believed it. This week, not humble but gloatingly triumphant, he put Rebekah Brooks back in charge of his News Corp UK: two fingers up to parliament, victims and everyone. As she wasn't found guilty of complicity in industrial-scale phone hacking by her employees, then she was surely the most incompetent executive, cluelessly paying out shedloads of expenses for unknown purposes. She lost the company \u00a3300m and hundreds of jobs in the scandal while taking a \u00a316m payoff herself, as her colleagues went to jail. However, back in the saddle, her newspapers will continue their ideological assault on the public sector as wasteful and badly managed, without a blush. This week marks another two-fingered triumph for the Murdoch culture of press abuse. The independent press standards organisation (Ipso) marks its first year. This sham regulator was set up by the press to protect itself, replacing the discredited press complaints commission (PCC) which was also run by and for the press. Only the Guardian, the FT and the Independent have refused to join Ipso. You can judge Ipso's independence in many ways \u2013 but start with Paul Dacre, the Daily Mail editor, who is in charge of its editors' code of practice committee, which writes the editors' code. That's the same post he held under the old PCC when, as revealed by Nick Davies in Flat Earth News, over the 10 years to 2008 the Mail \"had been provoking justifiable complaint about unethical behaviour at just over three times the rate of the other national titles\". Hacked Off, the campaign for an accountable press, greeted Ipso's first year with a demo outside its office and a dossier of cases where the self-appointed regulator had failed to deal with complaints fairly, or failed to insist that newspapers in breach print corrections as prominent as the original damaging stories. Some of this year's latest press victims wrote to the Guardian this week to protest about Ipso's failure to make the press obey its own code: \"We have no confidence in this sham body, which is controlled by the newspapers which have appointed their own 'industry representatives' to sit in judgment on their compliance with their own 'editors' code'.\" Today, at last, the Leveson process finally grinds into action, as agreed by all parties in parliament, and with overwhelming public support. The Leveson-ordained press recognition panel will open its doors for applicants to become a new regulator, genuinely independent of the press and independent of government. Impress is one organisation ready to apply to be that regulator. Once the panel certifies a regulator, it will be much less financially risky for ordinary people who could never afford to start a libel or intrusion case to bring claims to the high court against any newspaper that has failed to register to be regulated. The incentive for newspapers to join up is that any publication that is registered will get immunity from paying the other side's costs, even if they lose, and from the threat of exemplary damages. Investigative journalism is in constant peril from the deep pockets of great conglomerates or oligarchs bullying them out of publishing. Private Eye, for instance, would have been protected under the new system from James Goldsmith nearly driving them to the wall years ago. The Guardian risked its survival in standing up to Trafigura, Jonathan Aitken, and many others. This is the light-the-blue-touchpaper moment, when newspapers that refuse to sign up to this independent arbitration of complaints risk mighty damages. Vigorous and mendacious posturing from all the Ipso newspaper groups will protest that this Leveson system will be \"government regulation\", though it is doubly independent, through the independent panel that appoints and oversees it. However, when newspaper finance directors draw up their risk registers, the damages they can incur by refusing to join the regulator may make them think again. The public wants newspapers to be accountable for their errors and injustices, not to let them act as judge and jurors in their own interest. The sheer cruelty they can inflict on people, destroying lives, which no apology can ever redress, can be worse punishment than courts can inflict. Victims at a Hacked Off meeting this week spoke powerfully of what had happened to them: of casual brutality without accountability. (See their cases in the Failure of Ipso report.) The great question now is whether the newspapers' bully-power and political muscle to terrify politicians will force retreat once Murdoch, Dacre and the rest face the reality that staying outside a new recognised regulator could land them with colossal damages. Their current defiance suggests they are confident that the boot is always on their foot, the whip hand is always theirs \u2013 amid rumours that Cameron sorely regrets ever setting up the Leveson inquiry. Let battle commence: forget Murdoch's day of humility \u2013 in the past mere democratically elected politicians have bowed to the press magnates. Nothing will protect British life from the gross political distortions of our overwhelmingly rightwing press \u2013 but at least fair arbitration of complaints protects the weak.",
  "title": "The press regulator Ipso is a year old \u2013 and it's a total failure | Polly Toynbee",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/press-regulation",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "media/rupert-murdoch",
    "media/pauldacre"
  ],
  "lead": "The PCC's sham of a replacement looks on benignly as Rupert Murdoch sticks two fingers up to parliament, victims and everybody else",
  "id": "commentisfree/2015/sep/10/press-regulator-ipso-pcc-rupert-murdoch",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}