{
  "content": "As our haphazard privacy law gets put to the test again it appears that you can enjoy a \"reasonable expectation of privacy\" in the darkened recesses of a London nightclub. Elizabeth Jagger has been coy about her relationship with Calum Best - son of legendary footballer and pub frequenter George. However, the couple seem to have got carried away in February when CCTV captured their sexual antics in a Soho nightspot. It would appear that someone at the club decided to cash in on this photo opportunity and the News of the World did the honourable tabloid thing and published some of the stills. Claiming the usual array of privacy-related protection - copyright, confidence and data protection - Jagger persuaded the high court to prevent further publication of the CCTV footage whether in still or moving format. While the offending pictures that appeared in the News of the World were fuzzy, the actual moving pictures from the CCTV may reveal more - especially if they land on the internet. With this in mind, Mr Justice Bell granted an order against the club's manager (who denies any involvement) and any other unknown defendants. With a temporary injunction in force, Jagger junior can only hope that the footage is not already making its way onto the internet to join the celebrated sex video of \"A Night in Paris\", which Paris Hilton didn't manage to ban but is cashing in on the profits instead. In granting an interim injunction, Mr Justice Bell said Jagger had been a naughty girl but that her misconduct did not amount to such \"moral turpitude\" as to prevent her from seeking and being entitled to remedy from a court. While certain elements of the public may be interested in seeing these pictures, the judge was not satisfied that their disclosure was in the public interest and would only serve what he termed as the \"prurient interest of others\". He agreed with Jagger's counsel that the case concerned privacy and that she had \"a legitimate expectation of privacy\" as set out under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and that the right to free expression under Article 10 of the convention should not prevail. What makes this case interesting - and perhaps shows the impact of the Campbell v Mirror judgment - is deciding when an expectation of privacy becomes legitimate or, as set out in clause 3 of the PCC code \"reasonable'\". TV presenter Jamie Theakston initially obtained an injunction preventing details of his visit to a Mayfair brothel being published. That injunction was, however, overturned as the brothel was not considered to be somewhere to reasonably expect privacy and the ladies he was alleged to have been with were deemed to have a right to freely express their experience (although as a compromise, the photographs were not allowed to be published). Meanwhile, Anna Ford vented her anger at the ineffectiveness of the Press Complaints Commission after it found there was nothing wrong in publishing pictures of her and partner on a beach as it was public and therefore did not provide entitlement to privacy. Kate Beckinsale experienced a similar lack of sympathy over pictures of her in a park. What seems odd is that the PCC code says that \"private places are public or private property where there is a reasonable expectation of privacy\". These cases certainly seem to demonstrate discrepancies when it comes to deciding when this should apply. Certainly it would seem you have to go to court rather than the PCC if you want protection. Sara Cox was more successful for having done so and secured protection over pictures of her sunbathing topless. When considering such cases the courts have to apply the European Convention through the Human Rights Act and so balance the right to privacy against that of freedom of expression. The act gives clear guidance under section 12 that says regard should be had for the media and freedom of expression but in reaching a decision the court should take into account the relevant \"code\". In other words the judge should decide whether the press have complied with the PCC code. Irrespective of whether the expectation in this case was reasonable or legitimate, the European court of human rights decision in Hannover v Germany can also be applied. It provides that even where in a public place, the decision to publish pictures of a celebrity or other person (in that case Princess Caroline of Monaco) will not be justified merely because of who they are if no public interest can be shown. \u00b7 Edgar Forbes is a lecturer in media at Bournemouth University. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Jagger seeks to protect her Best bits",
  "lead": "Elizabeth Jagger's bid to stop further publication of CCTV footage of her Soho liaison with Calum Best  puts privacy under the spotlight once more, writes  Edgar Forbes",
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2005/mar/10/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}