{
  "content": "Each week, more companies make it into the headlines following embarrassing security breaches. In December, firms including Amazon and Walmart saw customer passwords leaked online. More recently, extramarital dating site Ashley Madison saw its users' records stolen, with hackers promising to trickle-leak members' personal records if the company didn't close. The impact to hacks like this ranges from mere embarrassment through to significant financial losses. PwC surveyed more than 9,600 IT executives globally and found that 41% of them had experienced at least one security incident in the past year. Of those, 37% reported financial losses as a result. For many board-level executives, tasked with minimising the risk to their companies, these figures should make it clear that securing corporate data is a duty rather than an option \u2013 but how best to do it? Protecting devices Understanding the key risk areas is a good starting point. One of the biggest threats to security lies with the devices that employees use. These are boarding points for malicious software, which can worm their way into your corporate network. The recent hacks at the US government's Office of Personnel Management (OPM), in which 7% of the US population's personal details were stolen, are said to have happened via malware infection. This is a particular problem for companies that let employees use their own personal devices at work. At home, employees might use these devices to install apps or surf sites that they'd never use at work. These programmes and websites can infect a device, and once it connects to the corporate network, it can then infect everything else. Take a two-pronged approach to protecting your devices. Set up a policy for device usage, which says what you're allowed to do with the system at work. Then, enforce your policy using technology. Another tip: install web-protection software that blocks devices from visiting known dangerous sites in the workplace. You can use centralised management software to monitor all devices asking to join the corporate network and mandate certain conditions before they are allowed on. These conditions could include the use of up-to-date anti-virus software on all devices joining the network, and checking that all operating system and application software has the latest security patches. Malicious software typically exploits vulnerabilities in operating systems and applications. A lot of the time software vendors have issued updates to close these loopholes, but many companies fail to apply them, leaving themselves vulnerable to attack. If an employee is using a personal device at work, enterprise mobile management software can add layers of security to the device. These include the use of encrypted \"containers\" for software and data related to work, which is sandboxed off from any personal apps that the employee may use. Mobile management systems can also be configured to remotely wipe a lost device. If you're planning that, however, ensure that employees have signed a policy allowing their personal data to be wiped, too. Strong authentication Encrypting information on a PC or mobile device, or on removable storage, is a useful way to protect data from prying eyes. It's certainly good practice, but ideally the sensitive information that employees need will remain on central corporate computers, accessed via a password. That way, there is little of value on the machine if it's stolen. Access to these accounts can be protected using strong, two-step authentication. If attackers guess or steal employee passwords, they could gain access to everything that the employee has access to. Prevent this by including a second step to access an account. When an employee enters their password, the system sends a credential to a specific device that they own, such as an SMS sent to a cellphone. The employee must enter the credential to confirm access. An intruder would have to intercept that SMS message in addition to stealing the password, making an attack far more difficult. The cloud These days, some of these online accounts may be accessed in the cloud, via third-party service providers that may host applications and data for employees. The cloud offers some huge cost and productivity gains, but could be a security nightmare unless you know what you're doing. A lot of the time data is stored unencrypted, leaving it vulnerable should a cloud service provider be compromised. Company IT departments should understand what cloud-based services employees need and act as a gateway, sourcing enterprise-friendly versions of these services from trusted providers that meet their security needs. Savvy companies will follow some basic guidelines before handing over their data to a cloud-based provider. Vet your cloud providers by asking them questions about how they will handle your data when you give it to them. The Cloud Security Association's cloud controls matrix is a good place to start. It provides a list of things to consider when choosing a cloud service partner. Cloud-security brokers can also help here, acting as intermediaries that encrypt data passing into and out of a cloud-based service. They can ensure that sensitive data is protected before it is stored in the cloud, so that even if a cloud-service provider is hacked and the data is stolen, the intruders won't be able to understand it. User awareness training These technology solutions are useful, but ultimately cybersecurity is backed by solid policies and procedures, and employee co-operation. These policies will cover basic procedures such as how and when data can be taken out of the workplace, how to spot a suspicious email, and how frequently passwords should be changed. An aspect often overlooked in a cybersecurity policy is what information should be given to people outside of the organisation. Some of the most effective hacks involve social engineering, in which an adept telephone caller can extract information from unwitting employees. Something as simple as giving out the names and telephone numbers of key internal team members can be potentially dangerous in certain situations. These policies need buy-in from senior management if they are to be taken seriously, and they should be reinforced with regular training and information sessions. How effective this awareness training is depends on how it is approached. Finger-wagging and scaring employees with dark consequences may be counter-effective. Instead, highlighting the benefits of responsible online behaviour in their own personal lives may be more effective. Effective cybersecurity isn't a zero-sum game. No one thing will protect a company entirely from malicious actors, but a combination of different measures can reduce the probability of attack. Attackers will often go after low-hanging fruit. In many cases, effective security may simply mean being less hackable than the next guy. To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled 'Brought to you by' \u2013 find out more here.",
  "title": "How to protect your business from hackers",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/cybercrime",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Recent hacking incidents have shown why securing corporate data is essential. Effective measures can be taken to ensure cyber safety",
  "id": "media-network/2015/jul/23/protect-business-security-threats",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}