{
  "content": "A canine social networking site, a way of improving your vocabulary while preventing starvation and email reminders that nag you to live more ethically. These are some of the winners of Yahoo's Finds of the Year competition, an annual search for the most innovative and strangest contributions to the web from the UK. The competition, now in its sixth year, is presided over by a panel of 10 journalists and web gurus. It rewards the best in new British websites in categories from shopping to education. Salim Mitha at Yahoo Search said that new websites were taking advantage of the growth in broadband connections and becoming more sophisticated and useful. \"We've seen a big trend in socially aware sites - trying to be more ethical, more eco-friendly. And obviously more sites that allow people to connect who have certain passions.\" One such is doggysnaps.com, winner of the social website category. This aims to do for dogs - and their owners - what Facebook has done for net-savvy 20-somethings. The site allows owners to set up a home page - or \"kennel\" - for their pooch, complete with pictures and descriptions of Fido's character and adventures. Users can then compare notes on all things doggy. If you want help learning a language from Afrikaans to Zulu then friendsabroad.co.uk - winner in the education category - is the social networking site to go to. It puts the user in touch with foreign internet pen pals who can help you pick up the language through online chats. The online green conscience, which won the ethical category, emails users daily with tips and help such as encouragement to buy locally grown groceries. Freerice.com, which won the best charitable website category, is a strangely addictive way of donating to the UN's world food programme while learning new words. It doesn't cost you any money, but for every correct answer you give, the site donates 20 grains of rice. The game involves correctly identifying synonyms for tricky English vocabulary such as prevenient, acidulent and preferment. Finds of the Year Best ethical website The Nag (thenag.net): helps people \"make the world a better place\" Best travel site World Reviewer (worldreviewer.com): reviews of world tourist locations Best innovative site Move Me (moveme.com): guide to moving home Best educational Friends Abroad (friendsabroad.co.uk): social networking for learning a language Best social site Doggy Snaps (doggysnaps.com): social networking for dogs Best weird and wonderful site Faces in Places (facesinplaces.blogspot.com): snaps of faces in everyday objects Best charitable site Free Rice (freerice.com): test your vocabulary while donating food aid Best shopping website Nigel's Eco Store (nigelsecostore.com): online retailer of environmentally friendly products and gifts",
  "title": "Website scoops award for going to the dogs",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/yahoo",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "A canine social networking site has been named one of the winners of Yahoo's Finds of the Year competition. By James Randerson",
  "id": "media/2008/jan/09/yahoo.socialnetworking",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}