{
  "content": "Spare a tweet for intrepid 'twitchiker' Chi-chi Ekweozor. She is currently working her way around Britain with the help and good wishes of people using Twitter and Facebook. As part of a charity fundraising quest to visit Seven Wonders of Britain, she left her Manchester home on Wednesday and has already successfully reached Giants Causeway in Ireland. \"I had a bit of a slow start but then I got a ticket to Belfast and I hitchiked for the first time in my life had got a lift to causeway from someone who stayed as my guide and then took me back to the port! \" When I caught up with her earlier, Ekweozor was at York station after visiting Yorkminster, waiting to get a train to Peterborough for a visit to the city's cathedral. Her destinations in the break-neck tour were chosen after 1,465 people cast the votes to select the final 7 Wonders of Britain from a list of cultural landmarks that included the Houses of Parliament, Blackpool Tower, the Angel of the North and Edinburgh Castle. Her plan is visit Cheddar Gorge, Stonehenge and Dover on Saturday before finishing at Hadrian's Wall. As well as tweeting and updating facebook, the mapping tool Glympse keeps track of her journey in real-time. And she needs your help \u2013 follow her at http://twitter.com/realfreshtv or use the hashtag #7wondersofbritain to help plan the journey. There's also a blog to keep track of events here. The UK tour is part of a wider fundraising initiative to raise \u00a3777,000 for seven charities by visiting Seven World Wonders. The charities are Alzheimer's Research, Victory Outreach Manchester, Feed the Minds,Young Minds, Diabetes UK, Sport Relief and Open Doors UK and donations can be pledged here.",
  "title": "Discovering seven wonders of Britain with the help of Twitter",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/social-media",
    "uk-news/north-of-england"
  ],
  "lead": "From Manchester around the country by tweet power",
  "id": "uk/the-northerner/2011/may/06/twitchike-seven-wonders",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}