{
  "content": "For a while, it seemed as if the ongoing debate about online safety, and all the expertise engaged with that, was obscured by simplified 'panic button' coverage in the spat between Facebook and Ceop, the Child Explotation and Online Protection centre. In the meantime, the Family Online Safety Institute had been collaborating on something far more worthwhile - an international directory of online safety initiatives. Grid features profiles, an outline of projects and initiatives and details of research and legislation in 150 countires. Photo by Sarag G... on Flickr. Some rights reserved. It has been an enormous undertaking, taking two years to develop and with eight specialists. Fosi raised about $200,000 in sponsorship from its members including MySpace. Corporations and government organisations will pay a subscription to access the site, which will summarise updates and major developments in quarterly reviews from an expert panel and guest contributors. Consumer version planned \"We think it's a hugely significant portal because 10%-15% of this content has never been seen in English,\" said Fosi's European development director David Miles, who led the project. \"There's a cornucopia of stuff in Indonesia, for example, around ICT and education. \"If you look at the challenges for parents in South Korea, Venezuela or London, they are facing similar issues - cyberbullying, learning to be web confident and in the differences between parents and kids. What is different is how the parents respond, the way an Arab parent responds to a parent going onto Facebook for the first time compared to a parent in Asia.\" This professional edition is the first incarnation \u2013 a consumer version, as well as expansion to cover a total of 200 countries, is in the works. It should combine the best practice of all the online safety agencies worldwide, as well as what doesn't work, and generally make online campaigns more informed, coherent and centralised. But it will be a significant challenge to keep the directory updated, just as it will be a challenge to adapt online safety mechanisms to cope with the growth of video which, Fosi, says, will account for half of all online content within two to three years. The problem with the panic button As for that panic button episode, Fosi chief executive Stephen Balkam said it was largely a label invented by the press. \"Ceop has done a good job raising awareness of the potential dangers on social networking sites,\" he said. \"The problem is that in cases like that of Ashleigh Hall, she never panicked at all. She never thought of herself as in imminent danger - she was actively cooperating and communicating with this guy and actually went off Facebook onto MSN Messenger, which does have a panic button.\" For Ceop to put so much emphasis on the panic button \u2013 or what Ceop internally actually calls a 'don't panic button' \u2013 as an essential solution was therefore rather disingenuous, he argues. Using that button as a reporting tool is far from a one-button process, and it is also not an anonymous process as it requires the child to enter their name and address to make a report. That's not the case for Childline and even 999. Cyberbullying is 99% of the problem Facebook handles 2m reports through its site every week, and 80% of those are false. But of those cases that are genuine, by far the biggest issues are cyberbullying, addiction, oversharing and 'sexting' \u2013 when girls are bullied into sending photos of themselves to 'boyfriends'. Balkam cites research by Ncmec, the National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children in the US the Crimes Against Children Research Center at the University of New Hampshire, which found that 1% of child victimisation cases involved the internet. \"Those cases are shocking and disturbing and they make the nightly news, but therefore they seen a greater problem than they are.\" The future of online safety is also about far more than just Facebook, which bears the brunt of the publicity because it is the most visible site. But it does have the opportunity to set a standard. \"Ceop has done a good job in companies like Facebook,\" said Balkam. \"It has awakened the sense of responsibility inside companies not just to improve, but to to innovate more in areas to do with reporting abusive behaviour or abusive content. It's not bad at all to force the entire industry to raise its level and raise the bar. \"It has also forced Facebook to communicate a bit more about what it is facing. No company in the world has ever attracted 500m users or 2m complaints per week. It's extraordinary.\" Balkam said he'd asked Facebook, somewhat tongue in cheek, if it had a philosopher on the staff because it is having to deal, at a very fast pace with what is good and what is abhorrent behaviour. \"Aristotle and Plato struggled with that \u2013 and the average age at Facebook is 28.\"",
  "title": "Online safety: Facebook, the Grid project and the 'panic button' myth",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "society/childprotection",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "International directory of online safety initiatives highlights best practice of agencies worldwide. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "technology/pda/2010/aug/09/fosi-grid-facebook-ceop",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}