{
  "content": "Peers are to be asked to back a bill to curb a total of 1,208 powers of right of entry to private homes and gardens, which range from following a bee to checking for German enemy property. The protection of freedom bill is aimed at rationalising the powers enshrined in dozens of acts of parliament, many dating back decades. The maverick Conservative peer Lord Selsdon says that dozens of recent laws covering anti-terrorism, environmental issues and consumer protection include powers of entry for state officials. But they are also to be found in older legislation such as the 1952 Hypnotism Act and the 1950 Distribution of Germany Enemy Property Order. A Lords constitution committee report welcomed the move to protect property from ''disproportionate enforcement action'' and said simplifying the ''veritable jungle of law'' was long overdue. But the all-party committee is also concerned that the way the legislation is drafted may hand ministers a wide-ranging clause allowing future powers of entry to be added without further legislation. The committee says that whatever assurances are offered by this government about these powers being used primarily to consolidate the law, it should not be assumed that future governments will have such benign intentions. \"As drafted, the bill does not strike an appropriate constitutional balance between the executive and parliament\", warns the report. Privacy campaigners from Big Brother Watch said the decision on who entered an individual's home should be taken by parliament, not left to ministers. \"Last year Big Brother Watch highlighted at least 14,793 officials in local councils nationwide who can enter private property without requiring a warrant or police officer escort,\" said its director, Nick Pickles. \"This bill needs to be much clearer in how it will not only reduce that number but also prevent future increases.\" As for the bees, Selsdon has pointed out that the 1980 Bees Act which gave environment officials the right to enter possibly also confirms the Roman law on following bees. \"If you find a bee taking pollen in your garden, it is taking raw material from your land. If you follow that bee and keep it in sight, you may go on to any other person's land, without permission or court order, and when you find its nest you may take a share of the honey because the raw material comes from you,\" he told the Lords.",
  "title": "Lords attempt to curb right of entry laws",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/lords",
    "world/privacy",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "Right to follow bees and to check for German enemy property are among the hundreds of rules on entering private homes that may be simplified",
  "id": "uk/2011/nov/03/privacy-right-of-entry-law-curb",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}