{
  "content": "Soggy-footed memery Quick recap for those who have spent the last week trapped in a titanium vault buried thousands of metres below the Earth's crust: on Wednesday 6 Jan, some wag at Newcastle upon Tyne creative agency Drummond Central pointed their smartphone out of a window and started live-streaming a puddle. In less enlightened times they would have been told to stop arseing about and get back to bloody work. But this is 2016, so instead of a swift P45 to the face they were encouraged to carry on filming. Soon, the Drummond Central Puddle had become a social media phenom, as tens of thousands tuned in to watch hapless pedestrians attempt to negotiate its watery depths. Brands got involved: Marmite and Greggs and Maoam, the latter of which managed a grand total of five retweets for this shonkily edited Vine: Yet at the same time as all this frivolity, difficult questions were being asked about the real meaning of hashtag Drummond Puddle Watch. Was it a communal celebration of that most British of pastimes: not getting wet? Or a cynical marketing ploy by some ad agency you've never heard of that ended up wasting hundreds of thousands of pounds in workplace productivity? I'm not sure, but what I do know for certain is that I WAS WATCHING THE DRUMMOND STREET PUDDLE BEFORE ALL OF YOU JOKERS. I was there when it was at 250 viewers, long before the Slippery When Wet sign and the surfboard and the selfies, and the general sense of smug self-awareness that overcame the whole exercise. I bought Drummond Puddle's first EP and saw it play an early acoustic set at the Fleece And Firkin. You? You saw 10 minutes of their headline set at T In The Park on the iPlayer and suddenly think you're a superfan. Whatever. You're welcome to it. Me? I've moved on. There's a zebra crossing in Milton Keynes that is so hot right now. Drummond Puddle when it was cool \u2013 10/10 Drummond Puddle when it sold out to The Man \u2013 1/10 GM Mike Ashley's emporium of tat Sports Direct, eh? Ever since the Guardian's investigative team got stuck in, the nation has understood them to be a bunch of below-minimum-wage-paying, Dickensian working conditions-exploiting, price regulation-manipulating wrong-'uns. Even notwithstanding the company's recent profit warning, presumably this bad publicity won't stop people from shopping there, however; after all, where else can you get change out of a fiver for half a dozen pairs of trainer socks? Instead, we must now venture into these strip-lit cattle markets and tut disapprovingly, even as we're exchanging a derisory sum of money for something that used to be quite expensive. It's tiresome when something you had long suspected was too good to be true is confirmed beyond all doubt to be exactly that. Is there anything good to be said about Mike Ashley's decency-defying behemoth? We're assuming that there must be some sort of Sports Direct Secret Menu. Perhaps if you ask extra nicely, there's an under-the-counter selection of exorbitantly priced hockey sticks, bespoke cricket bats, rigorously flame-proof shell suits and ethically sourced trainers. There must be, right? No? Oh well then. Mugs it is. Big mugs. The biggest mugs you've ever seen. Insert your own \"we must be\" joke here... 1/10 PH Chronic masticators Hypothesis: I inferred from the the submission that the aim of this review was to ascertain the quality of chewing gum flavours as a whole in 2016, not to find the best flavour. In order to do that, however, I had to try a few first. Procedure: I went to the shops and selected four different brands of chewing gum and four different flavours. I did so in the hope of providing if not an encyclopaedic review, then at least a kaleidoscopic one. Here are the four I selected: After purchasing these four gums, I took them back to the office and chewed on them. Observations: 1: 5 Turbulence Terrible name. By going to the shops I was able to establish that 5 used to have a flavour called \"flood\", which has now been discontinued. The flavour of Turbulence is an equally bad taste. The top note is of sick, then straightforward sugar, then a fruity rush that tastes exactly like fake watermelon. 2: Extra strawberry Extra is Britain's most popular chewing gum brand. This is a thoroughly disappointing flavour. It doesn't taste of fake strawberry, never mind real strawberry, it's more floral + citrus. The interesting thing is that you start chewing and think the flavour has gone, but then it comes back. And again. And again. The height of chewing gum flavour technology. 3: Trident tropical twist I said to the woman in the shop that I thought this would be rank and she agreed. But actually, it's the best flavour. A superlative blend of fake mango and fake passion fruit flavour. 4: Wrigley's spearmint Chewing gum like they used to make it, and it has hardly any flavour at all. In fact, the main flavour is gum flavour. I find this refreshing. Here are the gums after I have chewed them. Note the pitiful absence of something to wrap the Extra up in, a continuing problem with this brand. Conclusions: In 2016 fake is the new real, and the aim is to cram as much of that fake into one stick as you can in a short lived burst of flavour, something akin to a drug \"high\". Speaking as an anti-consumerist, this disgusts me. As a fan of fake mango, however, I'm quite pleased. I am torn and, therefore, my final score is a middling: 5/10 PM South London poultry dealerships Just to clear things up: I'm not going to eat in them so that you don't have to. We've all read dispatches by those unfortunates on Buzzfeed who attempt to dine at every Toby Carvery in the land, and the results rarely result in more than a guilty Facebook share (us) or a minor coronary and Christmas book deal (them). Besides, I've done my time among south London's poultry'n'hot oil purveyors, from Croydon (Chick In A Box) to Brixton's short-lived attempt to make it fashionable (Wishbone). The only reason I never showed up in the background of Channel 4's Chicken Shop (Roosters Spot, Clapham) was that I'd moved southeast by then (Mmmm Morleys, Penge \u2013 \"It's the taste\"). At last count (from a 68 bus between Elephant &amp; Castle and Tulse Hill, circa 2001), Walworth Road had approximately 20 such establishments, a respectable dent in London's unfeasibly chicken-unfriendly total of 8,000. Dallas, Memphis, CFC (Camberwell Fried Chicken), they were all much the same, save for the joint where they hastily put a plastic sign over the words \"Chick King\" (the more racy \"Cheeky Chick\" was surely the re-brand to get Jay Rayner beating a path to its door). Sticky ribs in foil bags, weird pots of beige gravy, occasional sightings of piri-piri: innovation remains scarce. While I could point to the \u00a31 \"student specials\", and Rayner's observation that no secondary school in nearby Newham is more than 500m from a chicken shop, as someone who ate 50p trays of chips and gravy in school lunch hours, that would be hypocritical. Besides, it never did me any haaaaa.... [drops dead at keyboard] Approx 20/8,000 MH Ickle wickle wobot fwend Actual state of this. Look at it. Look what happens when you look away for one second. North Korea tests a nuke, Justin Bieber becomes good, and someone puts a cute little face on a Segway, programs it to be your friend, and expects you not to hurl an office chair out of a 10th-storey window and see if you can beat it to the ground. This explosive new superstrain of gonorrhoea we're constantly being warned about can't wipe us out soon enough as far as I'm concerned. We're done. Humanity's had its chance. We squandered it on Segway robots and topknots and stupid tiny flat whites and calling people \"bae\". We should all just do evolution a solid, wrap ourselves in our slankets with fluffy little feet on them, and weep until there's nothing left but a necrotic, dehydrated husk of wasted potential. Little cute Segway robots. Just... come on. Sigh. But this is ostensibly a review, so let's get to it. Form: it looks like a mallet with wheels that's been \"pimped\" by someone whose mittens are still on strings, and it has the expression you imagine Bertie Bassett would have when experiencing rectal thermometry for the first time. It looks awful. Function: The Ninebot can apparently perform several tasks. Carrying things. Recording things, like videos, which could be useful for reasons I can't think of right now. Entertaining things, like dogs, as the picture above illustrates. Only it can't, because it's too small to carry anything useful like a bin, the world of gonzo video recording has been occupied favourably by uppity cyclists, and that dog is clearly utterly petrified. So Ninebot is roaringly, catastrophically, pant-soilingly useless. Price: dunno. Will be expensive though, won't it? And it'll sell like hot cakes anyway. I just stuck a paperclip though the flap of skin between my thumb and forefinger and it didn't change anything. What's the point? What's the point in any of it? -100,000,000/10 LH",
  "title": "The Newcastle puddle, Sports Direct, chewing gum, chicken shops, a Segway robot \u2013 we review anything",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "culture/culture",
    "lifeandstyle/food-and-drink",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "business/sports-direct-international",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Every Friday, we apply critical attention to things that don't normally get it. This is an important function that might just hold civilisation together. Or not. We'll review your suggestions, if you drop them in the comments or tweet @guideguardian",
  "id": "culture/2016/jan/08/the-newcastle-puddle-sports-direct-chewing-gum-chicken-shops-a-segway-robot-we-review-anything",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}