{
  "content": "Today's success by Max Mosley in his privacy action against the News of the World represents the culmination of nearly a decade of steady development of privacy law in this country. So far, this development has had little significant effect on the practice of the media. Whether this judgment will change that is far from clear. It was reasonable to say 10 years ago that there was no law of privacy in this country. There were what were widely seen as unreasonable press intrusions and excesses, particularly in the aftermath of the death of Princess Diana, but the courts, restrained by precedent, could do little in prevent this. Then in 1998, the Human Rights Act incorporated the European Convention on Human Rights into domestic law, which included the right to privacy. Quickly, a number of cases were brought to utilise this right: Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta Jones sued over the publication of unauthorised pictures of their wedding; the killers of Jamie Bulger obtained an order protecting their anonymity after their release from prison; and Naomi Campbell succeeded in her privacy action against the Daily Mirror over revelations that she was attending Narcotics Anonymous. Soon the parameters of an effective privacy law emerged. There were two key aspects to this. Firstly, whether the information in question could be said to be private. Some information concerning individuals was so trivial or so lacking in intimacy that no privacy could be said to attach to it at all. One key issue here is whether photographs of individuals taken in a public place engage a right to privacy. JK Rowling has brought an action against a picture agency over photographs of her young son taken in a public place. Initially the case was struck out on the basis that they were not private. However, this was reversed on appeal and the case is continuing. In Mosley's case, there is no issue as to whether the information is private. Pictures taken in a private place of such an intimate nature, plainly ostensibly engage a right to privacy. The second issue is, where the information is ostensibly private, whether there is a public interest in its dissemination. Here the courts have been keen to draw a distinction between matters which interest the public and matters which are in the public interest. The News of the World argued that the sex sessions it featured had a Nazi theme and that given Mr Mosley's role with the FIA, this was something that the public had a right to know. In the event, they had difficulties substantiating this claim and the judge held that there was no public interest in the publication of this material. But the most keenly anticipated aspect of the Mosley case was the damages award. The most obvious remedy for a court to order in a privacy case is a pre-publication injunction, restraining the disclosure of the information and keeping it secret. Nonetheless, most privacy cases so far have related to whether such an injunction should be granted and have not considered the question of damages. However, an injunction is of little use when, as here, the information has already been published and the first the victim knows of it is when he reads about it in the newspaper. The courts have struggled to calibrate appropriate levels of damages in privacy cases. There have been a few significant privacy cases where damages have been awarded. Naomi Campbell recovered a total of \u00a33,500 and the Douglases were awarded \u00a315,000. Some say that such awards are small change to the media and will not deter them in any way from publishing sensationalist and salacious material, even if it is a clear invasion of privacy. On the other hand, a substantial award would seem disproportionate compared with the relatively modest amounts awarded in personal injury cases. In the event, the judge awarded \u00a360,000. In doing so he rejected any claim for exemplary damages. These can be granted where it can be proven that a defendant has deliberately or recklessly acted unlawfully on the basis that the commercial advantage to it outweighed any compensation payable. He did so both because he questioned whether such an award was permissible in a privacy claim and also because the claimant could not, on the evidence, show that any such calculation by the newspaper had taken place. Significantly, the judge also rejected the suggestion that it was part of any compensation award of damages to deter newspapers publishing this type of material. Also notable was that the judge was prepared to take what he took as \"reckless and almost self-destructive\" behaviour of Mosley (in not ceasing to convene these sessions even after he had been warned that he may be being watched) in reducing the damages payable. So the award, while elevating damages awards in privacy cases to a new level, is unlikely to provide a significant deterrent to newspapers from continuing with stories of this type. The media will reflect that it could have been a lot worse. Accordingly, we can continue to enjoy or deplore the traditional tabloid expos\u00e9s for some time. Dan Tench is a media partner at Olswang. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Max Mosley: How has judgment affected UK privacy law",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/mosley",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/medialaw",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Dan Tench: Max Mosley's victory in his privacy action against the News of the World represents nearly a decade of steady development of UK privacy law",
  "id": "media/2008/jul/24/mosley.newsoftheworld",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}