{
  "content": "John is thinking about marshmallows today. Amber is doing a soft-shoe shuffle on camera to share with us. Mike, an intellect of global repute, has let me know that he is missing his dog. I sit surfing Facebook wondering how long can I indulge in this display of mind boggling, if entertaining, banality. Is what I am reading mere twittering, or is it cutting edge social networking? Am I laughing at these acquaintances, or breaking down barriers with new friends? A message knocks me out of my reverie. My only surviving friend from school is sharing a personal thought with 163 of her other close friends. A wave of possessiveness makes me feel old and petty. Like so many women, I'm a great investor in networks: from families to school runs and local community networks all the way through to business networks that can stretch across the globe from my computer. Networks are one's connectivity to the world beyond the self: to be active in them is to remain engaged, useful, supported and supporting. Unlike the hierarchical structures of corporations, networks are unpredictable and random. But not unreliable: you reach out in one direction and maybe receive back from another, but there is always a response. Even so, life has never been one great amorphous web: different qualities of relationship have been easy to distinguish and a minimal etiquette helps us to move smoothly between them. But no more. Facebook, more than MySpace and Bebo before them, wants to break down all distinctions between clients, acquaintances and friends and join them up into one easily manageable digital network. In half an hour spent on the site, Facebook was able to pull out every name I had ever entered on to a contact list anywhere, and offer them back to me as Facebook friends. From celebrities I had interviewed to legal assistants I had given instructions to, all, at the push of a button, could soon be receiving cute invitations from me to join Indra's gang. Is this friendship? Or is it playing a game called Friendship, using someone else's words, by someone else's rules? As I remember it, friendship was never that easy. It takes time to form, involves as much challenge as enjoyment, reaches and pulls on the parts of you that your relationships with acquaintances don't. Because friends take time to prove themselves, you can turn to them for specific, not general, responses to you. My worry is that this new activity will actually be mistaken for \"friendship\" in much the same way that 10 minutes of \"quality time\" with children can be mistaken for the real labour of love required to raise them. Meaningful engagement with others, whether children, friends or those who need our help, brings the greatest of rewards, but for that reason, it is not easily achieved. It demands the most precious of commodities: time and attention. Knowing the difference is becoming more and more crucial at a time when we are being called upon to engage and feel more on a number of counts. While we know more about the threat to the environment, the reality of war and the effects of poverty on young families, it is unlikely that much will change unless we develop our capacity to care about the consequences and are motivated to take action. For this reason, I'm enthusiastic about community service for all - yes, even those with City bonuses - and I'm happy if my son has 500 friends on Bebo as long as he doesn't think that's all he needs to do to connect. In an era where everything seems all too easily available at the end of a mouse click, I don't want friends and emotions to be just another option in a drop-down menu. \u00b7 Indra Adnan is co-director of New Integrity consultancy. indraadnan@newintegrity.org",
  "title": "Indra Adnan: Friendship by numbers",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": "Indra Adnan: Social networking has turned relationships that were easy to distinguish into one amorphous web.",
  "id": "commentisfree/2007/aug/27/comment.digitalmedia",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}