{
  "content": "A small but important project has been taking place in London's Tulse Hill for the past month, with nine young people being trained to developed apps that will benefit their communities. Apps for Good is the latest scheme run by the Campaign for Digital Inclusion, which has been training young people in IT for 15 years reaching 1,500 in the UK so far. But the latest initiative by the non-profit organisation is to exploit the popularity of apps to involve young people in creating apps that could improve their communities. Today is the graduation of the Apps for Good project. Nine young people between 17 and 26 have been working on app projects built on Google's Android platform, with expert mentors from tech, mobile and startups guiding each team. Dell is supporting the project through its Youth Connect scheme. CDI says the goal was to enable young people from low-income families to developer web and mobile apps for social change: \"The key aim of the programme is to offer participants leading-edge problem-solving and technology skills based on Google's Android platform to allow them to move on into education, employment or entrepreneurship.\" Stop &amp; Search Massive potential for this, and no small amount of power. Users, who will mostly be young people, detail their experiences of being stopped and searched by police including mapping the location, name and badge number of the officer and a sliding scale of how fair they felt their treatment was. The app also tells users their rights. Ultimately, the data from this app could build up a powerful record of any patterns in police stop and search, but the developers have already met the Metropolitan Police to discuss sharing feedback. \"Our main aim was to help make stop and search more fair and help you know your rights.\" The trio were interviewed by the local Streatham Guardian last month, saying the idea was not to create something 'anti-police; but to let young people feel more in control. All three have been stopped and searched. Download at the bottom of the page Developers: Aaron Sonson, Satwant Singh Kenth and Gregory Paczowski Studio Phly The app helps aspiring musicians find studio space using and recording equipment based on those nearest to their location, and also acts as a noticeboard for studios who want to advertise to this audience. Download Developers: Lemel Frank, Symon Morgan and Foyzul Hassan Student Voice Designed for students, the app will share recommendations and advice on London-based universities, lectures, tutors and also on clubs, libraries and local services. It gives universities a star rating, and students are incentivised to share their experience and advice through a rewards scheme. Users can also upload photos for each location. Download Developers: Moses Sonson, Matthew Tanti and Carlos Mateus",
  "title": "Apps for Good: How can mobile apps help communities?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/research",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "technology/android",
    "society/socialenterprises",
    "technology/apps"
  ],
  "lead": "Today sees the graduation of nine young people who have been given training to develop mobile apps for their communities. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "media/pda/2010/jun/17/apps-for-good-tulse-hill",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}