{
  "content": "Do they name on arrest, on charge, or when a defendant is put before a court? As journalists around the country will confirm, the answer varies from force to force and now the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) is trying to bring some uniformity to the practice. The problems this can pose for reporters were highlighted on Thursday when Warwickshire police announced they had charged a 54-year-old man with theft. Theft from them, the police. Thefts are not normally big news, but a theft from police is in the dog bites man category and so the inevitable inquiry from reporters was: who was this man? Not saying, came the reply from Warwickshire police, or rather: \"A 54-year-old man from the Stratford area has been charged with the theft of \u00a3113,000 from the former Warwickshire police headquarters at Leek Wootton. \"The man, a retired police officer, will appear before magistrates in Leamington on 22 May.\" This is not just a case of newspapers not getting all the detail they would like, as Bob Satchwell, executive director of the Society of Editors, said: \"With the recent upsurge of calls for offenders to remain anonymous until convicted, it is worth noting that if Stuart Hall had not been named when he was arrested, he might never have been brought to court. None of his victims knew one another.   \"And now one police force is refusing to name people who have been charged. There is a huge danger of secret justice replacing rights of the public, and indeed defendants, back to Magna Carta. It is time someone put a stop to this frightening trend.\" In the past, Warwickshire police's decision would have marked the end of the matter. Reporters might get the name confirmed from their sources, but without the protection of privilege an official police statement attracts, they are taking a risk in publishing if the source has got it wrong. As for complaining about police policy, it would be confined to railing against the press office on the phone and not much more. But reporters covering the case took to Twitter to ask others their opinion of this behaviour. One of the first was Orion Media journalist Darryl Murphy (@darryljoemurphy) who sent a series of tweets to media lawyers like David Allen Green and others, myself included, asking if we thought this sounded right. It's fair to say we did not think it sounded right at all. In my opinion, I said, if this was not a policy that had been applied across the board in previous cases, it would create the unhappy impression that policy was being made up on the hoof in a case involving a police officer, The case was taken up by Neil Mann, aka @fieldproducer, and who like many, tweeted that it was a very strange decision by Warwickshire. Warwickshire police were saying there had been a change in national policy on this. But the closest that has happened in recent weeks was Acpo announcing that suspects would not be named on arrest \u2013 there was no mention of a change of policy once someone was charged \u2013 Warwickshire appeared to be taking the national policy a large step further. By Thursday morning, they had moderated their approach, but still no name, with a statement which said: \"Following discussions which have taken place tonight over guidelines on naming on arrest and charge, Warwickshire Police has released the following statement: \"In keeping with national policy, Warwickshire Police does not name suspects on arrest. The force may, however, name suspects on charge unless it is inappropriate to do so. \"In the case in question it is inappropriate to name the person at this time. Following feedback over this issue tonight we will be reviewing our policy and will ensure that it is aligned to national guidelines.\" By 1.25pm on Thursday, policy had apparently shifted again, with yet another statement which said: \"A 54-year-old man has been charged with the theft of \u00a3113,000 from the former Warwickshire police headquarters at Leek Wootton. \"Paul Andrew Greaves, of Belvoir Lodge, Carlton, Nottinghamshire (and formerly of the Stratford area) will appear before magistrates in Leamington on May 22.\" By not naming him in the first instance, Warwickshire police managed to get the case more attention than it ever would have warranted had the accused officer's name been made public in their first statement. David Banks is a journalist and media law consultant",
  "title": "Police are in a quandary over the naming of suspects | David Banks",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "law/law",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "uk/police",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing"
  ],
  "lead": "David Banks: Warwickshire's force decided not to name an arrestee in a newsworthy case, but trying to keep things low-key backfired",
  "id": "media/media-blog/2013/may/03/police-name-suspects-privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}