{
  "content": "What skulduggery. The master of the rolls, Lord Neuberger, called it \"an extreme case of wrongful access to confidential material\" and regaled us with tales of how judges have for years turned a blind eye to spouses scrabbling around in dustbins, foraging in desk drawers, reading personal diaries and generally indulging in other dubious forms of \"self-help\" to get the best financial deals in divorce proceedings. The former wife's lawyers said the court of appeal's decision robbed women of protection previously afforded to them and declared the result a cheat's charter. \"Wives have until now been allowed to produce an ace from their sleeve: a document proving the husband had lied about his finances was admissible even if improperly obtained,\" they said. The erstwhile husband said: \"I was determined that my private papers could not be stolen and the perpetrators get away with it without retribution.\" Yesterday's judgment in the Imerman case covered areas of law usually viewed as mutually exclusive: breach of confidence and the admissibility of evidence in divorce proceedings. The principle characters in this drama are: the brothers Tchenguiz, their sister Lisa (Mrs Imerman) and her ex Vivian Imerman. They are all fabulously wealthy, or as Lord Neuberger put it: \"Both Robert and Victor Tchenguiz were and are in a substantial way of business, and Mr and Mrs Imerman each appears to have been independently rich.\" Under scrutiny was the conduct of the Tchenguiz brothers who, fearing that Mr Imerman would conceal his assets in their sister's divorce proceedings, copied (with the help of the other defendants) between 250,000 and 2.5m pages of his documents stored on the server used by an office they had previously shared. The files were handed over to their lawyer (also a defendant) who passed them on to Mrs Imerman's lawyer. Mr Imerman said they'd invaded his privacy and he argued that, since the documents were acquired unlawfully, Mrs Imerman shouldn't be able to use them in divorce. The court of appeal agreed with him. Divorce lawyers relying on the \"Hildebrand rules\", a set of principles peculiar to family proceedings, have for years been telling their clients to snoop and provided force wasn't used and electronic or snail mail wasn't intercepted \u2013 and as long as the sneaky spouse copied rather than stole documents \u2013 judges in the family division apparently approved of this. In the Imerman case the court tested the Hildebrand rules for compatibility with the law of confidence and found them wanting. While the court of appeal accepted that lawyers and judges are concerned about lack of candour in divorce cases, it found there was simply no legal basis for the rules. Mr Imerman's article 8 rights were engaged and in accordance with the law of confidence, set in out in cases such as Naomi Campbell's against the Mirror, he had a reasonable expectation of privacy in his email correspondence and other documents stored on the server. The fact Robert Tchenguiz owned the server and had physical access to it didn't alter that. \"Confidentiality is not dependent on locks and keys or their electronic equivalent,\" said Lord Neuberger. There was also the possibility that some of the defendants had committed criminal offences under the Computer Misuse Act 1990 and the Data Protection Act 1998. The court thought that this sort of \"unregulated self-help\" in divorce proceedings couldn't be condoned. As for Mrs Imerman, she could not be allowed to benefit \u2013 at least not at this point \u2013 said the court. Wives ought to apply for Mareva (freezing) orders or Anton Piller (search orders) if they have \"substantial reasons\" for suspecting that their husbands are not going to comply with their obligation to provide full and frank disclosure of their assets, said Lord Neuberger. The significant expense involved in making such applications is perhaps not such a problem for the wealthy Mrs Imerman, but in other cases it will be a huge obstacle. It should be said that the documents themselves didn't disclose an intention to hide assets and at the time they were purloined Mr Imerman wasn't yet under an obligation to file details of his finances in the divorce proceedings. The court ordered that the files should be handed to his lawyers and they will need the court's permission to part with them. Mrs Imerman and her lawyers don't have access to the documents now, but they can't be expected to erase them from memory, the court said. If full and frank disclosure is not forthcoming it is possible that they might be justified in applying for an order for some of the documents to be produced. The court of appeal said that where two parties are living together as spouses, civil partners or lovers, there may be room to argue that documents are not confidential: \"If a husband leaves his bank statement lying around open in the matrimonial home, in the kitchen, living room or marital bedroom, it may well lose its confidential character as against his wife,\" said Lord Neuberger. \"If the parties each had their own study, it would be less likely that the wife could copy the statement without infringing the husband's confidence if it had been left by him in his study rather than in the marital bedroom, and the wife's case would be weaker if the statement was kept in a drawer in his desk and weaker still if kept locked in his desk.\" The implications are clearly far-reaching for family lawyers and their clients. I'm not a divorce lawyer, or even a divorced lawyer, and would be interested to hear from specialists how this ruling affects the advice they'll be giving in future.",
  "title": "Skullduggery in divorce proceedings | Siobhain Butterworth",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/law",
    "money/divorce",
    "lifeandstyle/divorce",
    "law/court-of-appeal",
    "money/money",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "law/family-law"
  ],
  "lead": "Siobhain Butterworth: The court of appeal's judgment in the Imerman case has huge implications for family lawyers \u2013 and snooping spouses",
  "id": "law/afua-hirsch-law-blog/2010/jul/30/divorce-imerman",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}