{
  "content": "Prison sentences of up to two years for illicitly obtaining confidential personal data, such as phone or medical records, are to be introduced from next April under Ministry of Justice proposals published today. The move is aimed at private investigators and inquiry agents employed by newspapers who illegally trade in confidential personal data. It follows the Guardian's disclosure of News International's involvement in the trade and recent demands from the new information commissioner, Christopher Graham, for heavier penalties. The justice minister, Michael Wills, insisted the government had \"no intention of curtailing responsible investigative journalism which can be essential for the effective scrutiny and accountability of the powerful\". An additional public interest defence is to be introduced for the purposes of journalism, art and literature. The information commissioner said he supported the case for a tougher penalty \"rather than the recent paltry fines\". Last month Graham renewed his predecessor's demands for a custodial sentence when he told MPs that the fines available were not a deterrent to a lucrative trade that could net up to \u00a3120,000 a month. The original proposal to introduce jail sentences for the offence of knowingly or recklessly misusing personal data was shelved after Paul Dacre, editor-in-chief of the Daily Mail, said the \"truly frightening amendment\" to the Data Protection Act would have a \"hugely damaging effect on legitimate journalism\". After a dinner with Gordon Brown, Dacre, with News International's Les Hinton and the Telegraph's Murdoch MacLennan, was assured that the jailing clause would not be implemented unless the justice secretary sought approval from parliament. The consultation paper published today proposes exactly that. Consultation closes in early January and a parliamentary order is expected shortly afterwards so the heavier sentences will be available to the courts from April. \"The knowing and reckless misuse of personal data is a serious criminal offence,\" said Wills. \"We have been monitoring this illegal trade closely with the help of the information commissioner and as there is a great deal of concern about the protection of personal data we think the time has now come to consider a more robust penalty. \"We are consulting on whether to enable the courts to impose a custodial sentence. A prison term would act as a strong deterrent, ensuring that those who commit this serious criminal offence and seek to profit from the illegal trade in personal data are punished appropriately.\" The order will amend section 60 of the act, so that a magistrates court could impose a penalty of up to 12 months and/or a fine of \u00a35,000. The order will allow up to two years' jail on conviction in the crown court. Prison would be reserved for those responsible for \"the large scale abuse of personal data, or repeat offenders\". Community orders and fines would be used to deal with lesser offences. The additional defence would cover those acting for the purposes of journalism, art or literature \"with a view to publishing such material in the reasonable belief that the obtaining, disclosing or selling of the information is in the public interest\".",
  "title": "Jail sentences likely for illegal trade in personal data",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "news/information-commissioner",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Private investigators working for newspapers are target of government plan for prison terms of up to two years",
  "id": "media/2009/oct/15/jail-sentences-trade-personal-data",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}