{
  "content": "When it comes to selfies, you don't get more revolutionary than a grey-haired Chinese man in nothing but pants and socks, firing his own thigh like a gun. Throw in a traditional rice-picker straw hat and the fact that the man in question is internationally famous artist and activist Ai Weiwei, and you have yourself an explosive meme. The question, of course, is what Ai Weiwei intended with his aggressively acrobatic pose, posted to his Twitter and Instagram feeds at 5.49pm on Wednesday. An email to his team elicited no response, while the internet elicited more stabs in the dark than a production of Hamlet. One blog retweeted by Weiwei, Beijing Cream, noted the similarity of the pose to one seen in the Chinese ballet The Red Detachment of Women. The ballet was one of the eight model operas that monopolised the 1960s Chinese national landscape during the cultural revolution; a state-sanctioned depiction of one woman's rise through the Communist party. Coming, as it has, just after the 25th anniversary of the protests in Tiananmen Square, suddenly Weiwei's photo looked a lot like a satirical comment on China's onerous cultural control. Forget giving state oppression the finger; this is giving it all six barrels from your facetiously-raised thigh. It is cocking your leg at the regime. Or is it? While a reference to The Red Detachment of Women is no doubt subversive \u2013 riot grrl band Bikini Kill used it as an unofficial video for their 1993 single Rebel Girl for a reason \u2013 it is also playful. While lots of his followers have labelled their photos with the #endgunviolence hashtag, there are also plenty of people excitedly proclaiming \"the rifle \u2013 new dance move!\" or asking \"Is this the new planking?\" The 100-plus photos submitted by Weiwei's followers, re-enacting his pose, range from the sublime to the ridiculous. In one, a small Asian boy fires his leg at a huge ceramic tortoise. In another, a woman fires her stilettoed leg at a tongue-poking pug. There are leg-guns on skateboards, feet pointing at tanks on TV, assassination scenes, calves trained on wall-mounted stag heads, toes aiming at acoustic guitarists, a leg-firing Kermit the Frog and one man holding his toddler's chubby leg like the world's softest machine gun. Weiwei even posted another in-his-pants shot on 13 June, which sees him firing a young boy's leg at a retaliating woman, by a small lake. The caption on Weiwei's first post translates as \"Beijing anti-terrorism series\". This points to several possible interpretations. First, this is a physical subversion of the propaganda paraded across Beijing's stages since the 1960s. Second, this is Weiwei's way of marking the quarter-century anniversary of Beijing's student-led demonstrations in Tiananmen Square, known in much of the world as the '89 Democracy Movement, but termed a \"counter-revolutionary riot\" by the Chinese government. Other internet commentators like Nikhil Sonnad, for the blog Quartz, have drawn reference to recent US school shootings and the violent tear gas attacks against protesters in Brazil over the World Cup. And, of course, you can't caption a shooting leg as anti-terrorist without bringing to mind the machinegun limb of Cherry Darling in Robert Rodriguez's Grindhouse film Planet Terror. In that film, Darling's thigh arsenal is used to attack zombies infected by the deadly biochemical agent known as DC2 or \"Project Terror\". Is his leg-gun Weiwei's way of telling us not to drift into zombie-like political apathy? Weiwei isn't the only artist attempting to stir up revolutionary fervour on Instagram. Madonna, between her #unapologeticbitch snaps, has been posting everything from giant horse lamps to pictures of Maya Angelou under the hashtags #artforfreedom and #revolutionoflove. Art for Freedom is, apparently, a global initiative by Vice and Madonna \"encouraging creative expression that brings awareness to human rights violations\". The guest curator for April was that great revolutionary and human-rights hero, Miley Cyrus. Weiwei's so-called leg-gun series certainly raises more questions than it answers. Whether this is a political gesture, a genuinely subversive criticism of state-controlled media, an artistic expression or simply his answer to the famous \"Angelina Jolie's leg\" meme remains a mystery. But the fact that one underwear-flashing, calf-clasping photo can produce a global conversation about state freedom, violence, Chinese communism, artistic interpretation and global power speaks volumes about the potency of the artist in our internet age. As one Chinese commenter said on The Red Detachment of Women image posted by Weiwei, \"This firing made loopholes.\" We'll just have to wait and see where those loopholes lead.",
  "title": "Is that leg loaded? Ai Weiwei kickstarts web craze with mysterious 'leg-gun' pose",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "artanddesign/ai-weiwei",
    "artanddesign/art",
    "artanddesign/photography",
    "artanddesign/artanddesign",
    "technology/instagram",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/media",
    "world/china",
    "world/world",
    "world/protest"
  ],
  "lead": "The Chinese artist has sparked an internet meme by posting pictures of people with their legs raised and pointing like rifles. Is it his latest revolutionary act? A new dance craze? Or the next Angelina Jolie's thigh? Nell Frizzell weighs up the options",
  "id": "artanddesign/2014/jun/13/ai-weiwei-leg-gun-photo-instagram-protest-meme",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}