{
  "content": "It is not for us to question what Twitter is, or indeed to seek its deeper meaning. Did you scrutinise sudoku? Did you ponder the raison d'etre of the Rubik's Cube? Know only this: you must say what you have to say in 140 characters or fewer. Upon pain of death. Look on these 140 characters as a lexical challenge, in the manner of, say, a cryptic crossword or a haiku, not as an embarrassing opportunity to employ txt speak, LOLS or smileys. In fact you should never use smileys. Anywhere in your life. Ever. Especially not that winky one. Do not address celebrities you are following as if they are your friends. It may seem as if you have known Philip Schofield all your life, but your friendship is a mirage involving a gopher and Fern Britton \u2013 his Twitter presence exists principally to promote a programme about ice-skating. Do not confuse these matters. Remember that Twitter is not Facebook. Conjoining your Twitter and Facebook accounts so that they have the same status updates is wrong \u2013 like wearing spandex to Ascot or using your pudding spoon to eat soup. It's embarrassing for you, and it's embarrassing for everyone around you. Please note that re-posting something funny and pretending you dreamed it up all by your pretty little self (rather than politely Re-Tweeting), is the Twitter equivalent of buying a Mr Kipling Raspberry Swiss Roll and passing it off as your own home baking. It is also most unsavoury to use Twitter as a dating device. Consider the cautionary tale of Masterchef's Gregg Wallace, who seduced a biology teacher from Ullswater after they shared some correspondence about \"jiggling cabbage\" and then found details of his romantic history strewn all over the Daily Mail. Nobody wants to be in the Daily Mail, and XXXTwitter is surely but moments from being invented. Until that moment arrives, please make do with speed-dating. Similarly, if you happen to be in a relationship, remember that excessive devotion to Twitter instead of to your beloved may prove problematic. As our compulsory celebrity reference-point, let us take the case of Jennifer Aniston and John Mayer, a romance undone, it is said, by the fact that while the guitarist could not find time for his lady-love, he could certainly find time to tweet. \"It's inherently silly and it's inherently dumb,\" he said after their split. \"If you really think that Twitter is the pathway to spiritual enlightenment, well . . . It's one step away from sending pictures of your poop.\" Do not tweet pictures of your poop. No really Ashton Kutcher, please don't. @missbarton",
  "title": "Twitter etiquette: the rules",
  "lead": "Laura Barton's guide to Twitter etiquette: Never directly address a celebrity in a tweet, don't use it as a dating service and don't post pictures of your . . . you-know-what",
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2009/jul/15/twitter-etiquette",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}