{
  "content": "Scrabulous on Facebook. Photographer: Leon Neal/AFP/Getty Images Let's raise a glass today to Alfred M Butts who died in New York 15 years ago, aged 93. Never heard of him? He was the inventor of Scrabble - originally called Lexiko - and never made any money out of it. What on earth would he make of today's corporate vultures swooping on Facebook and two brothers in India (Rajat Agarwalla, 26, and Jayant, 21) who have double-handedly revived Scrabble by producing a wonderfully addictive online version in Facebook, the social network, called Scrabulous. I know. It has brought me back to Scrabble after an absence of, er, 30 years, and lots more people as well. Sales of the real-life game have almost certainly gone up, since lots of people admit to buying it as a result of their Facebook experience. Yet Hasbro and Mattel, two of the biggest toy companies in the world, who own the legal rights to Scrabble (though they have apparently sold the digital rights to Electronic Arts), have thumped a \"cease and desist\" order on Facebook. If there is any justice in this matter, then the copyright holders should be awarded negative damages. They should pay money to the brothers who have revived their fortunes. But there isn't any justice in this instance. You want to know why? Because copyright and trademark law is the result of powerful corporate lawyers and their lobbies moulding policy. The consumer doesn't get a look in. The shenanigans over Scrabble/Scrabulous are a perfect example of what is wrong with the law and why it should be changed. Facebook's Scrabulous, although it has some different features, almost certain breaks these corporate sponsored laws. In retrospect, the brothers should have given it a name significantly different to the original (Lexiko?) and made some changes to the format, so at least there would be a case to answer under today's legislation (and Facebookers may well have been persuaded to cough up for the defence). But that doesn't alter the fact that they have made it into a much more attractive game, with little touches such as dragging a letter into the grid, a feature that automatically tells you what you are scoring and an online dictionary on the page (forbidden in the real game). The alternative scenario is this. Copyrights and patents should only last for, say, 20 years. That is what happens with patents in the pharmaceutical industry. That gives plenty of time for companies to maximise the profits rightly earned from innovation while preparing themselves to make improved versions of other companies' patents when they come on the market. That is exactly what is happening with Scrabble. An improved version has been made - Scrabulous - and if the laws were less restrictive, there would be lots of other versions as well. Consumers would gain and prices would fall. There would be nothing to stop Hasbro or Mattel from improving their versions. Indeed it would have made them sharper instead of dragging their feet over producing a sassy online version. It is one of the negative wonders of the world that producers in the US have managed to persuade legislators to extend copyright from 50 to 70 years or more after the death of the author. Nobody gains from this except the corporations. It is the easiest money anyone could make - extending an unjustified monopoly by an extra 20 years. In 1735, the painter William Hogarth helped to pass an act giving engravers the rights to their work for 14 years from publication. It was a landmark in copyright history, since it bestowed on engravers similar legal rights to authors and stopped sellers of prints from ripping off the profits. Hogarth would be amazed today to find that in the US copyright has been extended to 70 years after death. The benefits to corporations (higher profits) of a 20-year limit would be far outweighed by the benefits, to the economy as a whole and to consumers in particular, of attracting more creative minds to improve a product. Small, new companies do this so much better than the giants of the industry. Facebook itself is an example of small companies outpacing big ones. If the facedown over Facebook leads to a wider debate about intellectual property rights in a digital age, this is a great chance for Facebook itself to decide it is one of us and not one of them. Alfred M Butts would surely approve.",
  "title": "The letter of the law",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "law/law",
    "lifeandstyle/board-games"
  ],
  "lead": "Victor Keegan: Scrabulous on Facebook has given Scrabble a whole new lease of life, but consumers have no influence over the antiquated copyright laws",
  "id": "commentisfree/2008/jan/17/theletterofthelaw",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}