{
  "content": "The attorney general is to meet MPs on the select committee investigating phone hacking at Rupert Murdoch's News of the World, in a highly unusual bid to ensure its final report does not prejudice potential court proceedings against any of the 45 individuals so far arrested by police. Dominic Grieve will address members of the Commons culture, media and sport select committee at 5pm on Monday during an informal session to voice his concerns about the wording of their final report. The report is expected to heavily criticise James Murdoch, former chairman of News of the World publisher News International, but fall short of saying he misled parliament when he said he did not know about full extent of phone hacking at the now-closed Sunday tabloid until late 2010. Grieve's request to meet the committee has raised the hackles of some MPs, who believe he is interfering in parliament's democratic right to consider matters of public interest and to make pronouncements on them. \"It is most unusual for the attorney general to attend a meeting of this sort. Committee members are perfectly able to make a judgment about what is appropriate for parliament to say whilst respecting a jury's ability to hear a case objectively,\" said one source on the committee. A spokeswoman for the attorney general confirmed that the meeting was taking place but declined to comment further. Grieve has taken a tough stance on breaches of the 1981 Contempt Of Court Act, issuing several warnings to newspapers and prosecuting the Sun and Daily Mirror for their coverage of the arrest of Christopher Jefferies, the Bristol landlord who was later released and cleared of any connection with the murder of Joanna Yeates. Committee members are meeting later on Monday to consider a second draft of their final phone-hacking report, which is not now expected to come out until May, after Rupert Murdoch and James Murdoch appear at the Leveson inquiry. Well placed sources say the first draft was very \"watered down\" and the second draft is \"insipid in parts\" and would give rise to little concern regarding contempt of court. \"Just because the committee has parliamentary privilege doesn't mean the committee is going to be irresponsible,\" said one source. Speculation that the report would be highly critical of James Murdoch was fuelled by his resignation as chairman of BSkyB before Easter. Media lawyer Chris Hutchings of Hamlins said because Murdoch has moved to New York and severed his management links with News International and BSkyB, the committee was less likely to hold back on criticising him because of possible contempt issues. \"Some of those who are expected to be attacked in the report, such as James Murdoch, do not appear likely to face charges in this country, removing the risk of prejudice to criminal investigations in their respect,\" said Hutchings. But one member of the all party committee, Tory MP Damian Collins, has already indicated that it was set to clear Murdoch of allegations that he misled parliament over phone hacking. Collins said that Murdoch \"may be guilty of not asking the right questions\" over phone hacking but this did not amount to the more serious charge that he misled parliament. \"Looking at the evidence we have received, it's not clear [that] what James Murdoch told us is not true,\" Collins said in an interview the Guardian's Media Talk podcast (listen at about 8 minutes). Murdoch is not the only one nervously awaiting the committee's recommendations. Others who testified include former News International chief executive Rebekah Brooks, who was arrested in relation to allegations of phone hacking, illegal payments to public officials and attempting to pervert the course of justice. Tom Crone, the News of the World's former legal affairs manager and its former editor Colin Myler also gave evidence to the select committee claiming they made Murdoch aware in 2008 that phone hacking at the paper went beyond a single \"rogue\" reporter. Murdoch denies this. \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Phone hacking: attorney general to meet MPs over report",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/dominicgrieve",
    "politics/politics"
  ],
  "lead": "Concerns that select committee's report could prejudice potential court proceedings against 45 people so far arrested. By Lisa O'Carroll",
  "id": "media/2012/apr/16/phone-hacking-attorney-general",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}