{
  "content": "One of Scotland Yard's most senior officers today refused to reopen the investigation into telephone hacking after reviewing allegations made in the Guardian. Assistant commissioner John Yates, head of specialist operations in the Metropolitan police, said the inquiry in 2006 identified hundreds, not thousands, of potential targets of mobile phone interception. Of these hundreds, inquiries revealed that hacking had only been used against \"a much smaller pool\" of people, all of whom were informed and given preventative advice, he said. He said the investigation had not uncovered any evidence that John Prescott, the then deputy prime minister, had had his mobile phone tapped. Yates said he had not been involved in the original investigation, and was therefore able to carry out an independent review of the case after the Guardian's revelations. He said: \"This case has been the subject of the most careful investigation by experienced detectives ... No additional evidence has come to light. I therefore consider no further investigation is required.\" But he conceded that \"very real concerns\" were being expressed by Prescott and others about their privacy being breached. He promised to re-examine whether everyone who should have been contacted had been. \"I need to ensure that we have been diligent, reasonable and sensible and taken all proper steps to ensure that wherever we have evidence that people may have been the subject of any form of telephone tapping, they have been informed.\" Yates was called in by the Met commissioner, Sir Paul Stephenson, to review the original investigation after the Guardian revealed that Rupert Murdoch's News Group newspapers had paid out more than \u00a31m to settle legal cases where his journalists had used private investigators to illegally hack into mobile phones. The Guardian quoted sources saying that 2,000-3,000 mobile phones were hacked into by journalists from News Group, using private investigators. This is far more than was ever officially admitted during the original inquiry and prosecution of Clive Goodman, the News of the World royal correspondent, and Glen Mulcaire, a private investigator he hired. Stephenson announced the review saying: \"Clearly I am aware of this story and I think, as everybody knows this relates to an investigation that the MPS undertook back in 2006. \"I have asked assistant commissioner John Yates to establish the facts of that case and look into that detail.\" He added: \"If we need to investigate, we will investigate. We will do what we have to do to investigate crime wherever it exists.\" Yates spent today re-examining the case. The inquiry was sparked in December 2005 when police received a complaint from the royal household that Prince William's mobile phone may have been hacked into. Yates said officers identified that Goodman and Mulcaire were involved in a \"sophisticated and wide ranging conspiracy to gather private and personal data, principally about high profile figures. \"Our inquiries found that these two had the ability to illegally intercept voicemails, commonly known as telephone tapping,\" he said. \"Their potential targets may have run into hundreds of people, but our inquiries showed that they only used the tactic against a far smaller number of individuals.\" He explained the complexity of finding evidence to prove telephone tapping \u2013 which was the only thing the police were investigating. \"The police investigation was complex and carried out in close liaison with the Crown Prosecution Service, senior counsel and the telephone service providers. The technical challenges to service providers to establish that there had been interception was very, very significant. \"Our inquiries showed in the vast majority of cases there was insufficient evidence that tapping had actually been achieved. Where there was clear evidence that people had been the subject of tapping, they were contacted by police and made aware of the compromise to their telephone and offered preventative advice.\" He said only a few of these individuals were used as witnesses in the proceedings against Goodman and Mulcaire after extensive consultation with the CPS. Addressing the lists of names found in the offices of the two \u2013 which he put at hundreds, not thousands \u2013 he said: \"One was a private detective and one was a journalist. It's reasonable to expect them to be in possession of data about such matters. \"I must emphasise that our inquiries were solely concerned with telephone tapping. This as far as we are aware affected a much smaller pool of people.\" Sources involved in the original inquiry said today that the lists of mobile phones was more a \"wish list\" of targets, not evidence that the individuals had been victims of hacking. One source said that where there was evidence of tapping and individuals were contacted, none had made an official complaint. \"For the police authority to get involved there needs to be a perceived failure of policing.\"",
  "title": "Met police refuse to reopen phone-hacking inquiry",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "uk/police",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/metropolitan-police"
  ],
  "lead": "Assistant commissioner John Yates makes decision after reviewing allegations made in the Guardian",
  "id": "politics/2009/jul/09/police-refuse-reopen-tapping-inquiry",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}