{
  "content": "Rory Cellan-Jones was preparing for an early-morning live broadcast slot on BBC 5 Live from his home when he realised a telephone engineer had cut through his ISDN line. Rather than using a crackly phone line, he switched to Luci Live, a broadband-based broadcasting system, and did the piece in high quality. Cellan-Jones is the BBC's technology correspondent \u2013 a title he has held on and off over the past decade as dotcom booms have come, gone, and come again. It is often said that if you want to know what the technology trends of a few years hence will be, watch teenagers. But if you want to find out how you're going to be working in a few years' time, watch the technology journalists. Cellan-Jones tends to be in the forefront of trying new technologies \u2013 from email to the web to Skype to cloud computing to iPhones to Facebook to Twitter. William Gibson, whose 1984 novel, Neuromancer, is usually credited with giving a glimpse of how an internet-linked world might feel, once said that \"the future is already here: it's just not very evenly distributed\". If you look around, you'll find journalists who are already doing things that others will be doing as a matter of course in five or ten years' time. New tools Cellan-Jones says: \"I do think we, as tech journalists, start to worry about these things earlier than our colleagues \u2013 and are, of course, always eager to play around with the new tools first. I was anything but innovative until a few years ago. As a bog standard TV business correspondent all the technology was in the hands of others \u2013 crews, editors, satellite engineers etc. But now I'm given a bit of latitude to muck about with new stuff \u2013 though I'm slightly wary of claiming that it makes a lot of difference to what actually goes out on air.\" Sometimes it does. Kevin Anderson, the Guardian's blogs editor, used to work at the BBC: in 2005 he was trying to interview American soldiers serving in Iraq. Normal phone calls weren't feasible; but many soldiers had their own blogs, and also had access to Skype, the internet telephony system that gives free calls. Anderson emailed them, suggested a hook-up, and got the interviews. Steve Rubel, the \"director of insights\" at the US public relations firm Edelman, wrote: \"Veteran technology journalists are a harbinger of things to come. They have been around the block and have seen lots of bubbles and bursts. When I worked for CMP Media in the 1990s, then one of the big three tech trade publishers, I learned that if you follow certain reporters closely you can be early in spotting trends.\" Why, though? Because technology is the second-fastest changing field in news (after fashion). You'd watch what the fashion writers are wearing to find out what's going to be in next season. It's the same with technology, but with a longer timelag. Cellan-Jones joined Twitter in March 2007 \u2013 long before it became popular. Jemima Kiss, one of the Guardian's best-known Twitterers (and with the largest total of \"followers\"), joined in December 2006; the service had only been open to the public since July 2006. Ditto for Facebook. Thus technology journalists were often the first in an organisation to get (or demand) email, the web, to discover Google, YouTube and so on. Usually that is because technology companies seek coverage, and push their products to writers: Google gave early invitations to tech journalists to try out its webmail service in April 2004. At its launch, its unique selling point over its rivals, such as Yahoo and Hotmail, was its enormous storage \u2013 1 gigabyte, more than 100 times greater than their typical 10MB, and about 20 times that of many journalists' newspaper accounts. Unsurprisingly, technology journalists with access to Gmail began to use that rather than their office systems. Now, a number of newspaper offices are using Google Mail. The skills needed are shifting too. Technology magazines were the first to experience their readers migrating to the web, which meant that their journalists had to follow. Understanding HTML and CSS is useful; being able to tweak embed codes is increasingly important; and quite probably in the next few years being able to write programs (or manipulate spreadsheets) to extract meaning from chunks of data could become necessary \u2013 if, for example, David Cameron is elected and implements his plan to get councils to output their data in \"a standardised and open format\", as already happens with Tory shadow cabinet expenses. But technology journalists are often also the harbingers of what working life is going to be like. You may not like it. Mike Butcher, the editor of TechCrunch, a technology news blog, writes and updates the site from all over Europe. In January he wrote that he doesn't have a work/life balance \u2013 \"I have work/life hum.\" It started after he got an iPhone, with its email, Twitter, Facebook, web browser, calendar, text messaging, voice recorder and \u2013 most importantly \u2013 permanent, unlimited data connection. Important email He says: \"I realised that the 'background hum' of work emanating from my always-connected iPhone was a better way of describing how I now work \u2013 and live. It means I can send an important email while I'm fetching milk from the shop \u2013 or read RSS feeds while waiting for a train. And I can Twitter while waiting for my kids to get tired of the climbing frame in the park. \"There is no more 'balance' any more \u2013 as if there ever was \u2013 because what I am working on and interested in swaps from second to second as I use my iPhone. The internet is now an all-pervasive background 'hum' which never goes away unless I am out of battery or out of wireless signal, which is very rare.\" If that sounds scary, consider that TechCrunch \u2013 where Butcher is the sole full-time editorial employee, with no subeditors \u2013 may be a model for future news organisations: a low-staffed, high-readership news website attached to a money-spinning conference organiser. But while Butcher and other tech journalists may feel they are in the vanguard, journalism is rarely at the cutting edge of technology. Consider what Anderson found: serving soldiers in a war, blogging and using Skype. Possibly it's because soldiers are the ultimate group that can benefit from the internet's ability to simplify communication, and so hunt it out. But how many journalists were routinely using blogs or internet telephony then? Similarly, financiers have been getting their emails via BlackBerries for years; \"spreadsheet jockeys\" are essential to any well-run business; and downsizing, and strategic planning for competition, is a fact of life in most companies. Perhaps journalists have been sheltered from the realities of the changing world, and technology journalists have simply been keeping pace. Whichever it is, though, it's going to change. Rapidly.",
  "title": "Technology journalists are the ones to watch",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/bbc",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/television",
    "tv-and-radio/tv-and-radio",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/google",
    "business/telecoms",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "lead": "Technology journalists are often the pioneers of new gadgets \u2013 and point to the way we could all work in the future. By Charles Arthur",
  "id": "media/2009/sep/21/technology-journalists-pioneers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}