{
  "content": "Todd Carney achieved a new milestone in the moment that ended his NRL career: he attracted US media coverage. The images of him \"bubbling\" were irresistible to sports/snark site Deadspin, which commended his \"impressive accuracy\". But the first commenter encapsulated the bewilderment of many outsiders at the moralism of Australian sport, and the Sharks' swift, rough justice: \"This is disgusting, but why would you cut someone from your team for this?\" It's a good question, and not just for the NRL. Just as important are the questions of how Carney came to be in this predicament, and whether the Sharks should be able to sack him on this basis. Remember that as Russell Jackson pointed out yesterday, his behaviour, however ill-advised, was only harmful to himself. What if a panicky club, under the shadow of a doping investigation, struggling with a legacy of mismanagement, and possibly under pressure from the NRL, threw a momentarily errant player under the bus? This seems to be Carney's view. His match-winning performance on Friday night certainly did not seem like the work of someone who had relapsed into alcoholism. It's said that Carney is a repeat offender. No doubt he had his troubles at the Raiders. The Sharks claim this is his third misdemeanour since joining the club. In my opinion there's no good reason to take their word for anything. Even if they're right, all it proves it that the club was willing to overlook Carney's shenanigans until they became a PR problem. In other words, he came to grief because his dick went viral. It's impossible to imagine this story without the image and social media allowing it to spread quickly, and uncensored. Mainstream media then not only ran the story about Carney's bubble trouble, but followed recent custom by making its spread on social media the subject of still more stories. On Fairfax websites, Ben Grubb offered some 500 words and a graph showing a timeline of the story's mentions. The NRL has seen players do much worse and receive far less punishment. Nate Myles defecated in a hallway and copped a fine and a suspension. Carney's problem was that there was a photo, and an appetite for it. It was the photo \u2014 not the toilet behaviour itself \u2014 that was the subject of the Sharks' media release. They said that \"the photograph \u2026 does not meet the values and standards the club is looking to uphold and take into the future\". This suggests that Carney \u2014 who neither took the snap, posted it online, nor even knew it existed \u2014 was sacked for a failure to anticipate the way in which any and all of his behaviour, in whatever context, might be the subject of viral outrage. The implications of this should be troubling. Carney is certainly troubled, telling reporters the whole unexpected incident made him feel sick. Internet scholar Mark Andrejevic has coined the phrase \"drone logic\" as a way of explaining how surveillance is networked and ubiquitous. It is not a distant activity carried out by pilotless planes, but is built into our infrastructure of mobile devices and applications. When we are not being tracked and monitored by our smartphones, we are happy to supplement this by surveilling each other. We are potentially being watched and recorded everywhere we go, in ways we cannot individually influence or control. This also includes the urinal, apparently. Carney's career-ending mistake was in not presuming that this extended to the dunny at Northies. The Sharks saw his failure to keep ubiquitous surveillance in mind as a dereliction of professional duty. Lest we think this is just a problem for celebrities, we should remember the many people who have \u2014 unwittingly and unwillingly \u2014 become famous themselves as a result of a poorly-worded tweet, an endlessly forwarded email, or an embarrassing video. This is just one way in which the lines of celebrity culture are blurred in the social media era. Many professionals live and die on reputation, and it's normal now for employers to scrutinise the personas we have constructed in social media. Who could say that their own bosses would react differently to the Sharks to a viral image of bad behaviour? The most interesting question that arises is not about privacy per se, the very mention of which can now seem rather quaint. Rather, it is whether, by joining in with the derision heaped on Carney, we are endorsing the idea that we have a responsibility to modify our behaviour according to an awareness of constant surveillance. What happens when we accept that any sufficiently arresting mistake could be broadcast to a global audience? Sure, Todd Carney pissed in his own mouth. But is this really the way we want to live?",
  "title": "Todd Carney is a victim of our culture of constant surveillance  | Jason Wilson",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "australia-news/australia-news",
    "sport/sport",
    "world/surveillance",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "sport/rugbyleague"
  ],
  "lead": "Jason Wilson: Todd Carney wasn't sacked from the Sharks for urinating in his own mouth. He was sacked because he failed in his duty to be aware that we're under observation all the time",
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/jul/01/todd-carney-is-a-victim-of-our-culture-of-constant-surveillance",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}