{
  "content": "Peggy Orenstein in the New York Times has written a superb piece about the psychology of Twitter, and how heavy use affects both our behaviour and defines, in one way, our identity. Orenstein's piece is a welcome and all-too-rare piece of reflection on how we use those tools. Photo by Ant\u00edfama on Flickr. Some rights reserved She describes sharing a beautiful moment with her daughter, but how her experience became split between enjoying the moment and the impulse to split off and tweet about it. I know exactly what she means. Then again, that impulse to break away and record the moment also happens with using my camera and with drawing, so it's not new and not exclusive to technology. \"Back in the 1950s, the sociologist Erving Goffman famously argued that all of life is performance: we act out a role in every interaction, adapting it based on the nature of the relationship or context at hand. Twitter has extended that metaphor to include aspects of our experience that used to be considered off-set: eating pizza in bed, reading a book in the tub, thinking a thought anywhere, flossing. Effectively, it makes the greasepaint permanent, blurring the lines not only between public and private but also between the authentic and contrived self. If all the world was once a stage, it has now become a reality TV show: we mere players are not just aware of the camera; we mug for it.\" Each of us chooses what we present to the outside world, crafting a public identity - a identity that we want other people to see. Every tweet, every Facebook posting, every Flickr upload is part of reinforcing the image we want people to see. While she says she can't give Twitter up, she questions the expense of that compulsion to post: \"When every thought is externalized, what becomes of insight? When we reflexively post each feeling, what becomes of reflection? When friends become fans, what happens to intimacy?\" Orenstein concludes that she is trying to \"gain some perspective on the perpetual performer's self-consciousness\". Certainly it seems that collectively, our definition of what is personal and what is private is shifting towards openness. Ultimately, Twitter and the rest of our social media toolbox are just tools that take time and patience to learn and understand. The discipline to know when not to tweet is as important as the enthusiasm to share that started us doing it in the first place.",
  "title": "Twitter is changing how we interact with the world",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Peggy Orenstein in the New York Times has written a superb piece about the psychology of Twitter, and how heavy use affects both our behaviour and defines, in one way, our identity - a welcome and all-too-rare piece of reflection on how we use those tools. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "technology/pda/2010/aug/02/twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}