{
  "content": "The News of the World believes it knows better than parliament, police or probation officers. In the wake of the murder of eight-year-old Sarah Payne, it has decided to reveal the identity of all 110,000 known child sex offenders. It began yesterday with the photographs of 49 of them and the towns or districts where they are living. At that rate it will take them 40 years to reveal the identities of all existing offenders, let alone new ones. Some protection. And this ignores the awkward fact that the News of the World will not know the vast majority of offenders and would have to break the law to obtain their names. The tabloid tried desperately to dress this up as a child protection campaign, rather than a cheap publicity stunt to increase falling sales. It talked of the right of every parent to know where paedophiles are living. But this difficult issue was debated at length in 1997, when the paedophile register was introduced. With the consent of the police and probation services - and even hardline Michael Howard - it was agreed that disclosure should be confined to people who needed to know (headteachers, youth group organisers, community leaders) but that in exceptional circumstances the community would be warned. The reason for these restrictions was the vigilante action, which had followed earlier revelations of paedophiles' whereabouts. This had not just led to several mistaken attacks on wrongly identified suspects or homes (including an arson attack in which an innocent 14-year-old was killed), but had prompted several paedophiles to go to ground, making it much more difficult for the police to monitor and track them. Far from increasing child protection, it had made them more vulnerable. Lamely, having set out six stark pages of brutal mixed up facts, the tabloid urged its readers not to indulge in vigilante activity. That's as good as giving children matches, lighter fuel and tinder, but telling them not to start a fire. A better informed public would provide more protection to children, but yesterday's hysterical outpourings will only have increased public anxieties, rather than reduced them. The chances of a child being abducted and killed by a stranger are remote: about seven a year compared to the 80 killed by family members. Child sexual abuse has a similar pattern. We do need to be vigilant, but the last thing we need is more vigilantes.",
  "title": "Leader: Exposing paedophiles is no protection",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/sarah-payne"
  ],
  "lead": "The News of the World believes it knows better than parliament, police or probation officers. In the wake of the murder of eight-year-old Sarah Payne, it has decided to reveal the identity of all 110,000 known child sex offenders.",
  "id": "media/2000/jul/24/privacy.guardianleaders",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}