{
  "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday 23 July 2009 In the report below we said incorrectly that Poole council admitted to using the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act to film a mother to find out whether her daughter was within her claimed school catchment area. A council officer followed and watched the family at home but no filming or electronic recording equipment was used. Local authorities are still illegally spying on individuals despite curbs imposed on their covert activities, the senior official charged with scrutinising their activities said today. The disclosure appears in the latest annual report by Sir Christopher Rose, the chief surveillance commissioner. He said it was \"of significant concern\" that councils were conducting covert surveillance of individuals for purposes now banned under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, Ripa. Local councils were authorised to conduct nearly 5,000 \"directed surveillance\" missions in the year to the end of March, he revealed. Almost 5,000 were also carried out by other public authorities, including Whitehall departments. \"Directed surveillance\" is defined as \"covert surveillance of individuals while in a public place for the purposes of a specific investigation\". Such surveillance can be used only for the \"protection or detection of crime or of preventing disorder\". However, Rose, a former appeal court judge, made it clear that some local authorities are snooping on individuals for other reasons, including assessing and collecting taxes or other charges. Gordon Brown last year ordered an inquiry into how local authorities were using the act, originally introduced to give greater powers to the police and security and intelligence agencies. He moved after it emerged that councils were spying on individuals for offences as dog-fouling and unwarranted intrusions into privacy. Rose said yesterday that local authorities' justification for using covert investigations are \"not directly related to criminal acts that would be considered in a court of law\". However, he added: \"Local authorities have enforcement obligations to tackle relatively minor offences, giving rise to issues that are of significant concern to the local population; these require the collection of evidence to support action\". Sometimes, he added, the \"tactics\" adopted would meet the \"proportionality tests\" laid down by parliament. His clear implication is that sometimes they did not. Rose made it clear it was up to parliament, if necessary by changing the law, and not simply ministers setting up inquiries, to settle the issue. Among claims that councils were abusing their powers over the past year, Poole council admitted using Ripa to film a mother to find out whether her three year-old daughter was within her claimed school catchment area. The council was also caught spying on fishermen to determine whether they were catching shellfish illegally. Councils including Derby, Bolton, Gateshead, and Hartlepool also used the laws to investigate dog-fouling. Conway council used the act to spy on a worker who claimed to be sick, and Kensington and Chelsea council used Ripa to monitor the misuse of a disabled parking badge. Other councils used the laws to investigate fly-tipping or to check if residents were putting their rubbish out on the wrong day. However, while councils were abusing their powers of covert surveillance, they were not intercepting people's communications for trivial purposes, according to a separate report published yesterday. Sir Paul Kennedy, an appeal court judge who monitors the way communications are intercepted, denied that local councils were checking people's email and telephone traffic for trivial purposes. He also said that the \"Wilson doctrine\" \u2013 whereby MPs communications are not be intercepted \u2013 should be \"swept away\". He asked: \"Why should members of parliament not be in the same position as everyone else?\" Rose said in his report that a total of 9,894 \"directed surveillance\" operations were authorised in the year to March 2009 to public authorities. Kennedy said Jacqui Smith, then home secretary, authorised 1,508 phone taps last year compared to 1,881 the previous year.",
  "title": "Councils still breaking surveillance laws",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/surveillance",
    "society/localgovernment",
    "society/society",
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "law/uk-civil-liberties"
  ],
  "lead": "Local authorities are still illegally spying on individuals despite curbs, according to surveillance commissioner",
  "id": "uk/2009/jul/21/local-authorities-spy-on-public",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}