{
  "content": "David Mitchell, the award-winning author of Cloud Atlas, this morning turns to the \"diabolical treble-strapped textual straitjacket\" of Twitter for the first time to tell a new short story, The Right Sort. Mitchell will unveil his tale, about a boy tripping on his mother's Valium pills, in Twitter's 140-character bursts for the next seven days. He follows in the footsteps of authors from Jennifer Egan to Neil Gaiman and Philip Pullman, who have also experimented with the social media medium; there is even a Twitter fiction festival. The novelist has set up a new Twitter account, @david_mitchell, for the story; his previous account has only previously been used to release information about his books and appearances. But Mitchell said that \"once the idea that I could use Twitter as a storytelling medium bit me, it wouldn't leave me alone\". \"The story is being narrated in the present tense by a boy tripping on his mother's Valium pills. He likes Valium because it reduces the bruising hurly-burly of the world into orderly, bite-sized 'pulses'. So the boy is essentially thinking and experiencing in Tweets,\" said Mitchell. \"My hope is then that the rationale for deploying Twitter comes from inside the story, rather than it being imposed by me, from outside, as a gimmick. Usefully, the Valium also lets me walk that 'Turn of the Screw' tightrope between the fabulous and realism: maybe the supernatural events are really happening, or maybe they're just chemical phantasms.\" Set in the same universe as his much-anticipated new novel The Bone Clocks, which opens in 1984, as a teenage runaway meets a strange woman who offers a small kindness in return for \"asylum\", The Right Sort will run to 280 tweets. Mitchell described writing fiction for Twitter as a \"diabolical treble-strapped textual straitjacket\". First, said the writer who was shortlisted for the Booker for number9dream and Cloud Atlas, \"obviously, you're limited to 140 characters\". Secondly, the tweets are visually sequential, \"and I think this alters how the text is read. Reading off a page is like looking down at a landscape from a balloon \u2013 your eye 'sees' the story as well as reads it, its layout, its paragraphs and structure, and 'remembers' what it just read because it's still there, on the page, simultaneously. If you want to, you can reread any line instantly; or linger; or speed up; or optically 'flinch'. Reading a series of tweets is more like looking through a narrow window from a train speeding through a landscape full of tunnels and bands of light and dark. Each tweet erases its predecessor.\" And last, \"narrative tweets have to be at least two things: one, a balanced entity with its own (may I say haiku-like?) rightness, and two, a 'propellent' or maybe a kind of plate-spinner of character development, or mood, or plot, or idea, or a combination. So it's just as well that I love the escapological challenges posed by diabolical treble-strapped textual straitjackets. I can't say it was easy, but then again Georges Perec wrote an entire novel without a single letter 'E'. Now that's a straitjacket.\" The first tweet, which went out at 7am on Monday, was: The Bone Clocks will be Mitchell's sixth novel. The author was chosen as one of Granta's Best Young British Novelists in 2003, and his first novel, Ghostwritten, won the John Llewellyn Rhys prize. Starting from today, The Right Stuff will be revealed in 20-tweet bursts, at 7am and 5pm daily for the next seven days.",
  "title": "Novelist David Mitchell publishes new short story on Twitter",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "books/books",
    "books/fiction",
    "technology/twitter",
    "books/davidmitchell",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "lead": "Booker-shortlisted author submits to twitter 'straitjacket' for seven-day tale of boy tripping on valium",
  "id": "books/2014/jul/14/david-mitchell-publishes-short-story-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}