{
  "content": "Apparently, Twitter could be worth $10bn. Or maybe $15bn. It's hard to say because there is little financial information about the company in the public domain. The advice here is to ignore the flotation hullabaloo until the company says something meaningful about profits \u2013 like whether it makes any, or how it intends to do so. Twitter itself is a creation of beauty in the eyes of its fans \u2013 a mishmash of news, punditry, gossip, gags, information, entertainment, outrage and more. It can be tailored to taste and is free. But how will it make money? A key attraction is the virtual absence of corporate messages. The few commercial intrusions, like the \"promoted trends\", are thankfully tucked away in the corner. If thinly disguised adverts were to proliferate, users would surely revolt. If you're not paying for it, you are the product, runs the standard explanation of the business model of free-to-use social media sites. One can understand how the principle applies at Facebook, which seems to be able to bludgeon its users into accepting commercial creep. But isn't Twitter meant to be an antidote to all that? The company this week signed a deal with Mondelez, the Oreo biscuit and Cadbury's chocolate people, to \"deliver real-time marketing solutions\". What are they? \"The partnership with Twitter will allow us to take our capabilities to the next level in terms of analytics, instant engagement and global scale and be on the forefront of real-time innovation,\" the company explained. So you're going to find topical excuses to warble about biscuits? The good folk on Twitter may tell you to dunk off. Still, even social media companies can't float without a prospectus, so Twitter's financials and business model will have to be unveiled soon enough. Maybe it will all make sense then. But $10bn-plus for a company that, according to the whisper, will only break even this year? It sounds pricey, even by the tech sector's jam-tomorrow standards. Sports Direct Welcome to the FTSE 100 index, Mike Ashley. You have confounded the City critics you called \"cry babies\" when Sports Direct's shares plunged after flotation in 2007. \"I've got balls of steel,\" you said as you vowed to ride the storm and make the company worth \u00a34bn. The target seemed incredible, but you're there. Little ol' Sports Direct is worth half as much as Marks &amp; Spencer and you own 65% of the shares. You are hailed as a retailing genius. And FTSE 100 status means funds tracking the index will have to own a small slice of your company. So, indirectly, you've got hundreds of thousands of new co-owners. Congratulations. Now can we talk about zero-hours contracts? The man with the iron assets scarpered after his annual shareholders' meeting this week before he could be pressed on why he thinks it necessary, or desirable, to tie 90% of Sports Direct's staff \u2013 some 20,000 people \u2013 to contracts that give no guarantee of work from one week to the next. His boardroom underlings maintained their silence on zero-hours, just as they have done for weeks. Ashley is being feeble. A public debate is raging on whether the spread of zero-hours contracts, though clearly appropriate for some people, is creating a casualised and exploited workforce in the UK. The government is reviewing zero-hours contracts, with the outcome due any day. A FTSE 100 company that says it is \"committed to responsible business practices\" ought to be able to join the discussion. The feebleness extends to City fund managers. If only from self-interest, they should make Ashley answer two questions. First, is Sports Direct's 24,000-strong workforce now dangerously divided? Some 2,000 salaried staff are collecting \u00a3100,000 payouts from a share-based incentive plan that has come up trumps with the soaraway share price. Meanwhile the 20,000 don't get guaranteed hours, let alone a look-in on the performance-related bucks. \"It is the skill and enthusiasm of our circa 24,000 employees that are key to our success,\" says the group's annual report. OK, but will it be trickier to maintain the enthusiasm of the have-nots excluded from the bonus bonanza? Second, what are the terms of your zero-hours contracts? Do they contain exclusivity clauses that require workers to be permanently on call? That is the style of contract that is in the line of political fire. If Sports Direct has taken that route, would it be sensible to get ahead of events by offering workers a guaranteed minimum number of hours? A general worry about zero-hours contracts is that abusive employers are getting a free ride on the public purse as the benefits system is left to fill the gap in workers' earnings. The relevant Commons select committee could usefully ponder the issue. The insights of our latest captain of industry would be welcome. MPs would find that Ashley, when prodded, is very quotable. Thames Water In the world of water we're meant to be living in a new era of peace and understanding where companies and customers \"share pain and gain\", to use Ofwat chairman Jonson Cox's phrase. And, to be fair to the companies, many have tried to get into the spirit by reinvesting in infrastructure when projects have been brought in under budget. But who's this kicking up a stink? It's Thames Water \u2013 again. The company, where Australian financial outfit Macquarie is the biggest investor, grumbled bitterly when told in 2009 that household bills could only rise by 3% above inflation during the 2010-15 period; it wanted an astonishing 17%. Now Thames wants to increase bills mid-session. It wants an extra \u00a329 on average bills of \u00a3354 next year. Unexpected expenses is the gist of its argument. Ofwat is not impressed and will make a counter-claim that Thames hasn't delivered everything its customers have paid for. The regulator also points out that water companies have enjoyed the gift of ultra-low interest rates since 2010, a huge benefit for a company as financially leveraged as Thames. Ofwat is right to fight. More than half of Thames's \u00a329 claim relates to an increase in bad debts. But all water companies have suffered that way during the recession; apart from Thames, they took the blow on the chin. Thames has just blown any goodwill it secured via its own \u00a390m reinvestment of budget savings. Why is the company being aggressive? It may be warming up for the bigger battle over the financing of London's proposed new super-sewer (assuming it gets the go-ahead), where \u00a380 increases for customers are in prospect. Thames's shareholders have done well since the leveraged buyout in 2006, notwithstanding a dividend cut last year. It is important that Ofwat wins this skirmish. Housing bubble It would be easy for George Osborne to dismiss business secretary Vince Cable as a chap who worries about a house price bubble whatever the financial weather. But it is harder for Osborne to ignore the chorus from elsewhere. Simon Wolfson, chief executive of Next, is a Tory peer and said this week: \"The loosening of the mortgage market alongside government housing market stimulus measures look likely to result in an unhelpful house price bubble. The result will be a significant drag on the economy if and when interest rates begin to move up.\" Or try Antony Jenkins, chief executive of Barclays, who said there is the risk of a property-driven boom in the UK and added: \"The regulators are on it and don't intend to let it happen but these things can be difficult to control.\" Take note, chancellor, scepticism in the business world on your housing policy runs deep. The second stage of Help to Buy, due to arrive in January, should be cancelled",
  "title": "Beware the Twitter IPO hullabaloo \u2013 $10bn-plus sounds pricey",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "business/sports-direct-international",
    "money/water-bills",
    "business/business",
    "uk/uk",
    "business/ipos",
    "business/internetipos",
    "business/utilities"
  ],
  "lead": "A key attraction is the virtual absence of corporate messages. Facebook seems to be able to bludgeon its users into accepting commercial creep. But isn't Twitter meant to be an antidote to all that?",
  "id": "business/nils-pratley-on-finance/2013/sep/13/twitter-ipo-sports-direct-thames-water",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}