{
  "content": "Pakistan lifted a two-week-old ban on Facebook today but said it would continue to block individual pages containing \"blasphemous\" content. Pakistan banned Facebook on 19 May in response to an online competition that invited people around the world to submit drawings of the prophet Muhammad. Muslims consider all depictions of Muhammad as heretical. Yesterday Bangladesh also banned Facebook, saying it would lift the restriction only when the offending material was removed. In recent weeks Pakistan extended the censorship to hundreds of other sites, including YouTube and Wikipedia. Most are now accessible again. The censorship triggered criticism on Twitter and in the country's English-language media, but no street protests. Internet users were initially able to circumvent the ban through proxy sites but were thwarted when the government blocked those too. Najibullah Malik, the Pakistani official orchestrating the censorship, said Facebook had removed all \"sacrilegious material\" from its website and promised that \"nothing of this sort will happen in the future\". But by late afternoon a Facebook page entitled \"Everybody Draw Mohammed Day!\" was still online. One image depicted a bearded face with an explosive fuse trailing from his turban pasted on to a photo of a naked woman. The page was not accessible in Pakistan. A Facebook spokewoman said the company had restricted access to the page in certain countries, including Pakistan, \"out of respect for local rules\" but had not removed it in others. Facebook critics say some drawings on the Muhammad page are so offensive to Muslims that they constitute hate material. They point out that the site has previously censored sensitive material in Pakistan, including blocking a lawyer who tried to set up a satirical page entitled Taliban Times. The competition to draw Muhammad was conceived by a Seattle cartoonist in protest at threats against the creators of the US cartoon South Park, which portrayed the prophet in a bear suit during a recent episode. Many commentators were reluctant to defend the right of westerners to \"defame\" Islam but also accused their government of using the ban as an excuse to crack down on freedom of expression. It was notable that while Islamist groups took to the streets to support the ban, their secular opponents stayed at home. \"There was a lot of anger, a lot of resentment, but nobody took any action. Why? Because they had no counter-argument to make,\" said Nadeem Farooq Paracha, a cultural commentator with the Dawn newspaper. \"Anything to do with Allah, or the prophet, and everyone keeps quiet. That's the problem with our country.\" Pakistan already bans a wide variety of websites with political or human rights content including those run by Baloch or Sindh nationalists, and videos of Pakistani soldiers beating civilians. Pornography, however, is freely available. The controversy was overshadowed at the weekend after gunmen killed over 90 members of the minority Ahmedi sect in Lahore on Friday \u2013 bloodshed that highlighted violent prejudices against those deemed to be non-Muslims.",
  "title": "Pakistan lifts Facebook ban but 'blasphemous' pages stay hidden",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/pakistan",
    "world/censorship",
    "world/islam",
    "world/world",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Official vows 'nothing of this sort will happen in the future' after row over contest for images of Muhammad",
  "id": "world/2010/may/31/pakistan-lifts-facebook-ban",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}