{
  "content": "Name: The mannequin challenge. Age: 11 days. Appearance: Stationary. Is this like the ice bucket challenge? In a way. In what way? Do people drop mannequins on their heads? No. People have to hold completely still, like mannequins. Ah, I see. And why do they have to do that? They're young. Who knows why young people do the crazy things they do? Because they are still optimistic about their lives? Probably. Anyway, this seems to have started at Edward H White high school in Jacksonville, Florida. On 26 October, a Twitter user called @pvrity___ uploaded a video of six kids holding a series of motionless poses on a table with the hashtag #manequinchallenge. That's not how you spell \"mannequin\". Oh, shush. Days later, it had been viewed and imitated hundreds of thousands of times, often with the song Black Beatles by hip-hop duo Rae Sremmurd playing in the background. It's so obvious when you think about it. I guess. Anyway, we seem to be approaching the peak of this new meme, which has now been performed by members of the Milwaukee Bucks basketball team and Germany's Borussia Dortmund football team, among many others, and by Rae Sremmurd themselves. Wait a minute. This is just a revival of the tableau vivant! Um, maybe by accident. It is really a revival of the Harlem Shake. Remind me what that was again? The Harlem Shake was another video meme, in which one person danced in a room full of others acting normally while the song Harlem Shake built to the drop. After the drop, the video cut to the entire room dancing wildly in fancy dress. What's a drop? You're hard work today. The drop is when the volume and bassline suddenly and satisfyingly return to a piece of music. Like the climax of Beethoven's Ninth. Ah. And do they raise money for charity as a result? Nah, they don't bother with that. But at least it's an improvement on the cinnamon challenge or the fire challenge. Which were? To swallow a spoonful of cinnamon in a minute, and to set fire to yourself, respectively. They were both quite dangerous. Setting fire to yourself is dangerous? Who knew? Do say: \"I barely move for hours most evenings, and I spell things correctly. When am I going to be internet famous?\" Don't say: \"I am so bored by that song now.\"",
  "title": "The mannequin challenge: like the Harlem Shake, but stationary",
  "lead": "The latest in video fads sees people freeze-frame on film and has gone global in days. Striking a pose has never been so fashionable",
  "tags": [
    "media/social-media",
    "society/youngpeople",
    "technology/internet",
    "music/harlem-shake"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/shortcuts/2016/nov/07/the-mannequin-challenge-like-the-harlem-shake-but-stationary",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}