{
  "content": "What is LinkedIn's volunteer marketplace? A new set of tools on the LinkedIn website to help charities find and connect with skilled professionals who want to donate not just their time, but their expertise to a good cause. Why has it been set up? Lots of UK workers are interested in using their professional skills to make a difference and thousands of charities are in need of skilled volunteers to sit on their boards and help them develop. With 17 million professional members in the UK alone, LinkedIn realised that it could help match skilled professionals to the charities that need them. How many professionals are interested in volunteering their skills? Almost a quarter of a million professionals have already signalled an interest in volunteering on their LinkedIn profiles, and recent Office for National Statistics data shows that nearly a fifth of people in the UK have volunteered their time over the last 12 months. How can the marketplace help your charity recruit volunteers? By allowing you to post live volunteer opportunities and board positions, and search a pool of members who have indicated that they are interested in charity positions. LinkedIn is also partnering closely with organisations like the Do-it Trust and Reach Volunteering to repost their skilled volunteer opportunities, so if you post on one of those services, you will also access LinkedIn applicants. Which charities will benefit? This is open to all registered charities in the UK. How can your charity get involved? Visit nonprofit.linkedin.com, where you will learn how to set up your charity's company page and start searching and posting for skilled volunteers and board members. Is there a cost? Searching LinkedIn's 17 million members for relevant volunteers is free, but there is a small fee to advertise volunteer positions to ensure that only legitimate positions are advertised. This fee is dependent on the location of the role, but prices are typically between \u00a310 and \u00a320. Any money raised from the small advertising fee is donated in full to non-profit volunteer support organisations. How much time can professionals volunteer? As little or as much time as they like, which makes it easier for charities to match their needs with those of volunteers. What is the best way to connect with relevant volunteers? When professionals apply for your opportunities, you will receive their contact information as part of their application. You can then send them an email to further discuss the opportunity. When you're searching on LinkedIn for potential volunteers, the best approach is to send them an InMail (LinkedIn's messaging service) with details of a position that you think they'd be suited to. These members will already have ticked a box on their profile to indicate that they would like to volunteer, which makes them more likely to be receptive. If you work in the charity sector, please join our free network for charity professionals.",
  "title": "LinkedIn's volunteer marketplace \u2013 what charities need to know",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "voluntary-sector-network/volunteering",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network-blog",
    "voluntary-sector-network/how-to-guides-for-small-charities",
    "voluntary-sector-network/communications",
    "voluntary-sector-network/trustees",
    "public-leaders-network/public-leaders-network",
    "technology/linkedin",
    "society/volunteering",
    "society/charities",
    "society/voluntarysector",
    "society/society"
  ],
  "lead": "A quick guide to the professional network's new tools that match charities with skilled volunteers and vice versa",
  "id": "voluntary-sector-network/2015/feb/06/linkedin-volunteer-marketplace-what-charities-need-know",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}