{
  "content": "I reported yesterday that Heat magazine had apologised to the Duchess of Cambridge (aka Kate Middleton) for publishing a picture of her shopping at a supermarket. But the picture, and others from the same \"banned\" set that caused the fuss, can still be seen on websites elsewhere because they are located outside the UK. I have a dilemma here because, to prove my point, I have to link to some examples. I am not seeking to intrude into the Duchess's privacy, but there is no other way of proving my point. So here are just three glimpses of the forbidden images... at the Huffington Post (its US rather than UK site), Kate Middleton shops at Tesco in jeans &amp; boots (PHOTOS). They are also on the site of the US magazine Us Weekly, Kate Middleton goes grocery shopping in heavy turtleneck and on the celebrity news site called Just Jared, Duchess Kate Gets Groceries at Tesco. So what does this tell us? First, there is a ready market for pictures of the Duchess outside Britain. Second, given that the paparazzi and their agencies are aware of that, there is every likelihood that they will go on snapping away. Third, her lawyers can do little to prevent the publication of such images by sites that are not covered by the European Convention of Human Rights (and therefore obliged to adhere to its strictures on the right to privacy). Fourth, the Press Complaints Commission, which negotiated the apology by Heat magazine, cannot do anything about non-UK sites or, indeed, any British-based site that is not owned by its signed-up members. Fifth, certain UK newspapers and magazines regard it as unfair that pap pictures of the Duchess - which, they argue, are potential sales-winners - can be accessed by their readers. Sixth, they further argue that the actions of the Duchess and her lawyers (Harbottle &amp; Lewis) are inimical to press freedom. Seventh, it is also argued that they are harmless pictures of a person in a public place (though I'm not convinced that Tesco is really public). Anyway, I'm not going to argue any kind of public interest defence for the stalkerazzi. Nor do I think we should go to the barricades to ensure that our papers and magazines can publish candid shots of the wife of Price William. We all have in mind, surely, the dangers of allowing the uninhibited photographic pursuit of a princess. It strikes me that we have returned, in a sense, to the days of Edward VIII, with a slight twist. The American press can publish what we can't, as before. But this time around, some 75 years on, British people can see it too. However, I imagine the crushing of the British market in pictures of the Duchess will be followed up by two other initiatives. One is the possibility of prosecuting the photographers (and, potentially, their distributors). Two is more of PR bid to warn off overseas publishers about the unethical/illegal way in which such pictures are obtained. There is, of course a wider context, beyond royalty. However much we wish to regulate our press content in Britain (are you listening Lord Justice Leveson?) the world wide web is virtually (pun intended) impossible to regulate. PCC ruling: here",
  "title": "American sites publish 'banned' paparazzi pictures of Duchess",
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade on the dilemma facing British newspapers and the Duchess of Cambridge - US sites are beyond the law and the PCC",
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/duchess-of-cambridge",
    "media/pcc",
    "media/medialaw",
    "law/law",
    "media/huffington-post",
    "media/us-press-publishing",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "law/european-court-of-human-rights",
    "law/human-rights-act",
    "business/tesco"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/greenslade/2012/may/23/privacy-duchess-of-cambridge",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}