{
  "content": "The Sheffield Documentary Festival this week is celebrating what is surely a golden age of documentaries. Forever at the very heart of Channel 4, they are now resonating with audiences like never before and viewers are spoilt for choice in peak time on all the terrestrial channels. This is credit to the phenomenal amount of talent, both emerging and established, in the sector \u2013 but we need to keep docs relevant. In order to do that we need to be mindful of two things. First, there's a danger that we're all so keen to secure access, we fail to see how well managed we have become by the very subjects we set out to reveal. If the independence and critical edge of documentaries becomes blunted viewers will soon lose interest. That's as true of fixed-rig series such as 24 Hours in A&amp;E as it is of more traditionally made observational documentaries like A Very British Airline. There has to be room in the mix for docs that make their subjects, and viewers uncomfortable. Secondly, docs have come back into vogue partly because of audience appetite, but also because, thanks to a highly creative and competitive sector, the editorial and technological approaches have evolved massively. Docs are much more revealing, thrilling, funny, engaging and often, narrative-driven than ever before. That's thanks to technology such as fixed-rig cameras capturing so beautifully the every-day drama of difficult precincts, for example schools and hospitals and also thanks to producers and directors investing in longer shoots with their subjects than ever before \u2013 Love Productions had a production team on James Turner Street for over a year to tell the stories on Benefits Street. Now we're experimenting with a whole new technology which we hope will open up a new dimension for docs. With independent producer Raw, we've developed a technology called the D-Rig (Digital Rig) which captures contributors' digital activity throughout the filming period. They are loaned a specially adapted smartphone which allows the producers to record texts, tweets, phonecalls emails, postings on social media, the lot. Inevitably this is a big ask on the part of documentary subjects who receive extensive briefings before deciding whether to take part, but if we're going to attempt to capture life as it's lived today, we have to go beyond what the camera can observe. The results are really interesting. The first series, following a cohort of first-year students as they try to settle into university life in Leicester, with a working title Freshers, captures for the first time the external and the internal experience. The predictable freshers' behaviour is contrasted with more reflective moments, with doubt, uncertainty and loneliness expressed on-line. We witness how fast news and rumours can spread and the immediacy with which this influences behaviour. I'm struck by how the contributors use Google, whether its to check their star sign is compatible with a new boyfriend, or find out how much more they're likely to earn if they complete a degree. Creatively, the texts or emails appearing as graphics on screen soon become a natural part of storytelling, just as they did with docs like Catfish or where they literally drove the narrative and the reveal. As our digital lives become all-encompassing, the idea of observing actions without peering beyond the screen could become antiquated. At Channel 4, we're entering a brave new world of story telling \u2013 one which is riddled with the same ethical and moral considerations and complexities which characterise our modern digital identities. I, for one, will be fascinated to see how our viewers respond to this next innovation \u2013 starting with how it plays out on Twitter. Ralph Lee is Channel 4 deputy chief creative officer",
  "title": "Channel 4 is entering a brave new digital world of story telling",
  "lead": "Ralph Lee: D-Rig technology allows a new series to capture contributors' digital activity and lets viewers get the internal experience",
  "tags": [
    "media/channel4",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/television",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/google",
    "film/documentary",
    "tv-and-radio/documentary",
    "culture/culture",
    "film/sheffield-doc-fest"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/media-blog/2014/jun/10/channel-4-digital-d-rig",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}