{
  "content": "Pictures of News of the World investigative reporter Mazher Mahmood, the so-called \"fake sheikh\", can be published from 4pm today, after the paper conceded defeat in its legal bid to prevent their distribution. The paper's decision not to appeal yesterday's high court ruling against an application for a further injunction means the Bethnal Green and Bow MP, George Galloway, is free to post images of the journalist on the internet from 4pm. Yesterday, the tabloid newspaper had its high court application for another injunction, pending a trial, turned down, but won a 23-hour extension so it could appeal the decision of Mr Justice Mitting. But this afternoon lawyers for the NoW's parent company News International decided not to go ahead with an appeal. The NoW has previously appealed to newspaper editors not to publish images of its investigative reporter. In court yesterday, the News of the World attempted to prevent publication of two photographs of its most famous journalist, a passport image and another of Mahmood dressed in Arab robes. It argued publication would threaten his personal safety and that of his family. The paper's barrister also argued that publication would prevent Mahmood from carrying out investigations and breached his privacy and was unlawful under the Data Protection Act. However, Mr Justice Mitting rejected the paper's arguments and said the true purpose of the application was not so much to protect Mahmood \"but the protection of his earnings capability and publication of his investigative journalism and his utility to his employers in that respect\". Mr Galloway said he exposed Mahmood after claiming the reporter tried to induce him into accepting illegal funds and making anti-semitic remarks at a dinner at the Dorchester hotel last month. The Respect MP planned to hold a press conference at his party office in his east London constituency at 4pm today, when the injunction expires. During his career of tabloid expos\u00e9s, Mahmood has duped England football manager Sven-Goran Eriksson and the Countess of Wessex into making embarrassing remarks. He also foiled an alleged plot to kidnap Victoria Beckham and her children, but the case against the kidnappers collapsed in court and Mahmood was accused of attempting to incite the crime. The News of the World said Mahmood was responsible for the conviction of more than 130 criminals. Early on in its skirmish with Mr Galloway, the paper issued a statement saying it was engaged in a legitimate journalistic exercise and would publish the results of its investigation into illegal party financing. It has yet to do so. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "NoW admits defeat on 'fake sheikh' pictures",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "media/mazher-mahmood"
  ],
  "lead": "4pm: Pictures of Mazher Mahmood, the so-called 'fake sheikh', can be published from 4pm today, after the paper conceded defeat in its legal battle. By Stephen Brook",
  "id": "media/2006/apr/06/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}