{
  "content": "Social networking sites are becoming the battleground for the heart of the internet. They represent the convergence of all the key trends in technology and media - personalisation, aggregation, media-sharing, communities and targeted advertising - and so are subject to intense curiosity. The latest in a string of announcements about new features, tools and partnerships is from MySpace. Today it launches the UK version of Impact, a platform to encourage, support and promote good causes, campaigns and charities. Jamie Kantrowitz, senior vice president for MySpace Europe, insists Impact is simply formalising a thriving area of the site that has been growing naturally for years - allowing charities to set up and customise their own page with videos, fund- raising tools and campaign resources. \"Young people are at the core of next generation social interaction and feel it is part of their identity to support these things,\" she says. MySpace is giving up around \u00a32m of prime advertising space to launch the new channel. But there will still be display advertising, and the long-term revenue from these will be going to MySpace. So how will those with a healthy disrespect for authority feel about a charity offering on a site owned by Rupert Murdoch? David Hall, campaign director for climate change group Together, says: \"As long as it provides something useful, they will use it. Murdoch has given MySpace scale and focus, and that's why it's a very valuable platform for us.\" MySpace argues that Impact is as far from a revenue-generating idea as it could be, but the project is the latest in a string of social networking initiatives as the big three - MySpace, Bebo and Facebook - all battle it out in a very busy market. Web figures from comScore (which do not include users under 15) give MySpace 109 million users each month worldwide, with Facebook at 86 million and Bebo 21 million - both continue to grow, while MySpace is starting to slow. The biggest problem for MySpace, says Screen Digest senior analyst Arash Amel, is Facebook. \"There's a sense it is the next big thing. On the west coast, it has been aggressively stealing top Google people and is growing fast,\" he says. \"They don't have the problem of being restricted by News Corp. Facebook is much more agile . . . but MySpace seems to have lost its way in the last few months.\" Bebo's latest push is a well-executed partnership with content companies, bringing video and music from big names including the BBC, BSkyB, MTV and Last.fm. Bebo wants another reason for its users to spend more time on the site, and content companies get to reach those valuable younger audiences. MySpace launched its own targeted advertising system and a DIY service to rival Google's AdSense. It is also understood to be pushing hard on music deals, shifting to free ad-supported downloads with a raft of major labels. The first trial, with veteran punk band Pennywise, starts in March. Given its core music following, it seems logical MySpace would focus more on this market, but Kantrowitz says the strategy is to appeal to as many people as possible. Amel adds: \"We may come to recognise, that the lifespan of a social network is no more than a few years - which means media companies need to respond and seed their content across these networks accordingly.\" And users, he says, will expect to be able to transfer their information and their content easily between all these platforms, which is just what Google's OpenSocial allows. As always, it appears Google is one step ahead of the game.",
  "title": "Social networking . . . all in a good cause",
  "lead": "As the big three battle it  out, MySpace is handing over a platform to charities. So whatever next? Jemima Kiss reports",
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/web20",
    "technology/myspace",
    "technology/internet",
    "society/voluntarysector",
    "society/society",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/google",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2007/nov/26/mondaymediasection.facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}