{
  "content": "India's ICICI Bank has launched a new service called \"icicibankpay\" that allows customers to transfer money using Twitter. Customers simply need to follow the bank's Twitter account to register their mobile phone with the bank and then send @icicibank a direct message with the recipient's user name and the amount to be transferred. The recipient does not need to be an ICICI Bank customer. ICICI Bank, one of India's big four banks and the second largest in terms of assets, is the second bank to add pay-by-tweet facilities. France's second-largest bank Groupe BPCE introduced a similar service last year. Mobile internet boom Many internet users have a mobile phone or smartphone as their primary computing device in India, where around 185 million of the total 213 million internet users access services through a mobile internet connection last year. India has a population of 1.2 billion, of which about 10% or 120 million people owned a smartphone in 2014, according to data from research company IDC. But the number of people owning smartphones in India is forecast to grow substantially as an influx of more affordable smartphone, such as the Motorola Moto G and models from local vendors including Micromax. \"This rapid pace of growth in smartphones is expected to continue in India. While we notice that much of the growth is coming from low-cost devices using the Android operating system, Windows is making adequate gains too based on the strength of the entry level product mix in smartphones,\" said Kiran Kumar from IDC India. Rajiv Sabharwal, executive director of ICICI Bank said that it was the company's strategy to go where its users are and that social media and mobile devices are key. The new financial services are the result of Twitter's push into e-commerce as the social network attempts to expand beyond advertising as a potential revenue stream, and aims to make Twitter a core experience in other activities. Twitter introduced a feature that allowed users to buy good directly from some promoted tweets, while Amazon introduced a feature that allowed users to add stuff to their baskets for purchase using tweets.",
  "title": "Indian bank allows payments via Twitter",
  "lead": "ICICI Bank lets users 'tweet to pay' and top up mobile phone credit their using Twitter usernames and direct messages",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/banking",
    "world/india",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2015/jan/20/banking-via-twitter-indian-bank-tweet-to-pay",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}