{
  "content": "It may have passed you by but Thursday is Data Protection Day \u2013 an event launched 10 years ago by the Council of Europe to raise awareness about our rights to personal data protection and privacy. Have you ever wondered about the rules concerning how your employer stores personal data on you? The Data Protection Act 1988 governs the use of personal data held about an individual by businesses and other organisations. When your employer stores your records, they must comply with the act. The act contains eight principles employers have to follow: \u2022 Personal data should be fairly and lawfully processed; \u2022 Data should be processed only for one of more specified and lawful purposes; \u2022 The data should be adequate, relevant and not excessive; \u2022 It should be accurate and kept up to date; \u2022 The data should not kept for longer than is necessary; \u2022 It should be processed in line with your rights under the act; \u2022 It should be kept secure; and \u2022 Personal data should not be transferred to countries outside the European Economic Area without adequate protection. What information can be held? Your employer can keep computerised or paper records of your name, address, date of birth, sex, education and qualifications, NI number and details of any known disability. They are also allowed to keep details about your employment history, terms and conditions, training and appraisals, together with grievance and disciplinary matters. Sensitive personal data (for example, information about your health, racial or ethnic origins, religion or belief, sexual orientation or criminal history) should not be held on your personal file without your consent. You have a right to be informed what records are kept and how they are used. All staff, including line managers, have a responsibility to ensure compliance and should not use other staff's personal data for their own purposes. Can you access your personal data? Under the act, you have the legal right to access information that your employer holds on you (known as a \"subject access request\"). The request needs to be made in writing (usually with a \u00a310 fee) and your employer will have up to 40 days for you to be: Told whether any personal data is being processed; Given a description of the personal data, the reasons it is being processed and whether it will be given to any other organisations or people; and Given a copy of the information comprising the data, and given details of the source of the data (where this is available). This could include information regarding disciplinary action or gathered through monitoring processes such as CCTV, telephone calls or emails. However, under the act, workers should be aware of the nature and reason for any monitoring. Your employer does not have to comply with a subject access request in certain circumstances, including if it means disclosing information relating to an identifiable third party, any proposed pay rise, promotion, transfer, training or redundancy. If you disagree with your employer's refusal to release data, you may be able to apply to court to decide whether you are entitled to access to the information. What if the data stored is inaccurate? You have the right to ask for the data to be amended or deleted if it is inaccurate, or likely to cause you substantial and unwarranted damage or distress. Your employer than has 21 days to remove the information, failing which you can apply for a court order. You can also contact the Information Commissioner's Office. When you leave employment, your employer can retain records relating to income tax or certain aspects of health and safety, but should eliminate personal information that is no longer of any relevance. Philip Landau is an employment law solicitor at Landau Law Solicitors. You can follow him on Twitter @philiplandau",
  "title": "Getting personal: how your employer can store and use your details",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/data-protection",
    "money/money",
    "money/work-and-careers"
  ],
  "lead": "On Data Protection Day, it's worth knowing the rules governing the use of your personal details",
  "id": "money/work-blog/2016/jan/28/data-protection-employer-store-personal-details",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}