{
  "content": "For the last few years an increasing number of developers have grown frustrated with the standard methods of telling stories through games. Animated sequences have gradually evolved to use in-game visuals, but now these intrusive cinematic artifacts are being abandoned altogether as designers toy with new methods of narration. Half-Life was an important benchmark, its story told through in-game dialogue as the player retained control of the lead character. Now, sandbox titles like the forthcoming Crackdown 2 and APB leave players to interpret the plot themselves, or just make is up as they go along. But in some ways the really avant-garde work has been going on elsewhere \u2013 in the realm of the ARG, or alternative reality game*. Here, proponents like 42 Entertainment and Darklight Interactive create interactive experiences by placing information around the internet, on faked websites, forums and Wikipedia entries, encouraging players to work together to decipher the clues. Until now, the ARG has existed more or less independently of the mainstream industry \u2013 EA's ground-breaking attempt at the genre \u2013 Majestic \u2013 being a notable exception. But a Vancouver-based studio named Smoking Gun Interactive may be about to merge the worlds of console and alternative reality gaming into one experimental new form. The team has yet to announce a name for the project \u2013 its codename is currently X, and there's an intriguing online preview named, Exoriare, a title drawn from Virgil's 'Exoriare aliquis nostris ex ossibus ultor' \u2013 let an avenger arise from my bones. What you'll find at the website is a snippet of an online graphic novel, beautifully drawn by in-house artists, Cheoljoo Lee and Younger Yang, and scripted by Douglas Rushkoff, the author and pioneering analyst of cyberculture. The story concerns a small US military team investigating the tunnels beneath a Maltese temple for unexploded munitions. In the labyrinthine depths they're attacked by some kind of supernatural being, but are whisked away by a shadowy armed force. Later, one of the soldiers goes missing, and the story snaps ahead to 2011; his daughter is at college, becoming involved with an arcane study group researching universal linguistics. Then we're at an army research facility where an unknown artifact is being fed electrical energy until it suddenly explodes, sending a shaft of light into the night sky. To be concluded\u2026 Here's the interesting bit. On page 13 of the online comic, it's possible to click on a computer monitor in one of the frames. This plunges you into a sort of old school text adventure, which borrows the first line from classic of the genre, Zork. This is followed by another mini-game based around assembling genetic codes. So what exactly is going on? John Johnson the Creative Director and CEO, isn't giving much away. Apparently, X will eventually be a cross-platform retail game release, which will include consoles. It will also turn up as a printed graphic novel and an online community-driven ARG. Somehow, they will all align and interact. \"More and more publishers, as well as movie studios, are looking for media that can be marketed 360 degrees,\" says Johnson. \"What we're focusing on more here, is that cross connection between these stories, and the depth to the interactions so the lines that separate each are much less visible. We've introduced a world inside a graphic novel that people can come and explore at their own pace, go as deep down that rabbit hole as they want, and join and interact with a community of other people all doing the same thing. \"Now, once you have a global universe evolving, and the player's experience unfolds within that universe, you have some real potential for complementary, parallel stories. It's an interesting problem, and one that we're very interested in tackling. There is certainly still a lot of evolution that needs to take place here and we feel we're just touching that right now.\" The story set up, which Johnson says has involved hundreds of pages of backstory documentation, mixes ancient technologies, military conspiracies and that old favourite, covert alien invasion. One section of the online game 'reveals' a coded message in the American declaration of independence, which warns of extraterrestrial forces aligning with Earthly governments. It's sort of X Files meets Dan Brown, with a dash of academic research. I ask about influences and Johnson briefly namechecks the Year Zero project, an interesting ARG experiment by Nine inch Nails and 42 Entertainment, the company behind legendary Xbox promotional ARG, I Love Bees. Here though, it seems the Exoriare website is more of a conceptual open beta \u2013 a way of building and engaging with a community. \"We wanted to find a medium between an ARG and an online game,\" says Johnson. \"We felt this would create a more timeless piece, as the experience itself should be captivating enough to go through, despite whether or not you know all the answers. For us, the whole 'ARG' thing just means an opportunity to share something with the community, and allow the community to share with each other. It can be three years for a game to go from something on a napkin to something on a box, that's a long time to be huddled in the dark, and we needed to share.\" ARGs have been used as marketing tools since they first started gaining recognition as a medium almost a decade ago; indeed, perhaps the first widely known example, The Beast, was designed to publicise the movie AI. But it's rare that they've been used in conjunction with game releases \u2013 THQ created one for Frontlines: Fuel of War, and Bioshock 2 was teased with Something in the Sea. X would appear to be a step on from those - it's not just about using an ARG to flag up a forthcoming console release; here, the ARG and the console game will, in some way, interact, or at least tell different facets of the same story. \"We see the online experience and comics simply as ways of exploring this universe that we're building,\" says Johnson. \"That said, the console game will share similar themes and ideas. Storytelling and interactively in games have always shared an odd opposing force. I want to play the game, move around, yet when the story occurs I must stop, wait, read or listen, this really limits the amount of story you can deliver unless you want to start impeding why the player picked up the controller in the first place. \"Introducing story telling methods that cross media boundaries can allow for that rich interactive experience, and still let the player delve as deep into the story as they want to go, at their own pace and, if this is on different devices, wherever they are. Imagine characters you develop are now sending you messages, blogging, and letting you know what's going on in the world even while you are away and the game is turned off. Through this they are revealing their personal journeys that you've taken them on, posted for all to see. Then imagine, you tell them to do something that will affect the world. The opportunities here are endless.\" If this hyper-ambitious vision was being spun by a twenty-something tech geek looking for venture capital suitors, I'd be cynical to say the least. But John Johnson has form. Before setting up Smoking Gun he was a Design Director at Relic, and producer on the hugely successful RTS title Company of Heroes. But that was an authentic, gritty and relatively straightforward WWII strategy shooter \u2013 seemingly a very different proposition to this seamless, multifaceted paranoid drama. Johnson though, sees vital parallels. \"In Company of Heroes, our vision and tagline was 'Real Soldiers. Real Battlefields. Real War.' We attempted to deliver a heightened emotional experience of these citizen soldiers that anybody could relate to. What we did not try to do was to rewrite World War 2. It's somewhat the same with X. We're finding the story that wants to be told, and we're telling it from the perspective of everyday people who are caught up in things much larger than themselves.\" Whatever happens with X, the ideas are vitally important. We're getting past the age of entirely self-contained videogame experiences; elements such as downloadable content, the interconnection with social networks and the creations of dedicated communal environments (PlayStation Home, for example) are expanding the experience beyond a game disc that you slot into an optical drive, play and then discard. EA was maybe ten years too early with its Majestic experiment, a science fiction thriller from 2001, which used email, fax and instant messaging to extend the cryptic story line. Before we started welcoming applications like Facebook and Twitter into our lives, it all seemed a little too intrusive and complex. But now that pervasive social technology is the norm, the ARG concept has become second nature to us without anyone really knowing it. Late last year, Smoking Gun received millions in private funding, for its singular take on videogame development. Somebody somewhere knows this is the future. *For more information on alternative reality gaming, check out Argnet or Arg reporter.",
  "title": "X marks the future of game narrative?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/games",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/gameculture",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "A new 'alternative reality' game from Canadian studio Smoking Gun may just show the way to the future of videogame story telling...",
  "id": "technology/gamesblog/2009/nov/06/games-gameculture",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}