{
  "content": "Google and Facebook are not friends at the moment, and you and your friends are the problem. Well, you know who your friends are: you probably have a list of them on Facebook, or MySpace, or Bebo, or Hi5, or Orkut, or some other site modelled after Friendster. The question is whether you want to extend those relationships beyond the walled gardens of the various social networking sites. And if you do, who is going to control how your data, and your friends' data, is distributed? Who cares? That's a reasonable question. There are at least two reasons why this stuff is important. The first is that it could affect your privacy, by making your online actions more visible. The second is that it could be important to the future of the web. According to Sir Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the World Wide Web of links between documents, the web is now turning into a Giant Global Graph of relationships. (In the GGG, \"graph\" just means \"social network\".) On his blog, TBL wrote about people having different documents on different sites such as Facebook and LinkedIn, and \"the frustration that, when you join a photo site or a movie site or a travel site, you name it, you have to tell it who your friends are all over again. The separate web sites, separate documents, are in fact about the same thing - but the system doesn't know it.\" On May 9, Facebook announced a solution to this problem, Facebook Connect. It said: \"With Facebook Connect, users can bring their real identity information with them wherever they go on the web, including: basic profile information, profile picture, name, friends, photos, events, groups, and more.\" On the following Monday, Google announced its own solution: Friend Connect. With this system, you'll be able to sign up to a participating web site such as Last.fm or Flickr, tell it who you are on Facebook or whatever, and have it fetch a list of any friends who have also signed up. And you'll get a grid of little mugshots of friends on the new site, much like the one on your social networking site. Facebook took a few days to think about the idea, and on Thursday morning, said it would block Google's Friend Connect. It \"doesn't respect the privacy standards our users have come to expect and is a violation of our terms of service,\" said Facebook - though later, chief executive Mark Zuckerberg said he'd like to talk to Google \"and see if there's a way we can make it work\". Facebook's response has been attacked in the blogosphere, partly because of its obvious financial interest. Facebook stands to make money by selling adverts against your profile data. That's less valuable if anybody can buy Google ads to run on the (eventually) millions of external sites where groups of Facebook friends also socialise. But then, it's also what you'd expect from people who seem keen to tell you every time they sneeze, via their blogs, podcasts and videos, and through a never-ending stream of Twitter messages or tweets. It's called \"lifestreaming\". Privacy? I now know more about Robert Scoble than I know about most of my own relatives. Maybe this is the future in the global village, where everyone will (at least potentially) know everything about everybody else. Maybe this will make some people behave better, instead of indulging in senseless acts of digital mayhem. But I suspect not. Do you want your real name - or a recognisable \"friendly\" pseudonym - plastered all over Digg or Slashdot or even Amazon? Do you want things you read or do online to appear as \"news items\" on Facebook or FriendFeed or whatever? Following Facebook's News Feed feature, that's the way things are going ... But there are plenty of reasons for wanting to stay anonymous, or to keep different parts of your life separate, quite apart from accumulating terabytes of pop music, TV shows or pornography. Someone who works in a bank's IT security department, for example, might want to keep her work friends completely separate from her D34thB0y persona, used on underground cracking sites, her babysitting circle, and her breast cancer support group. There's an attraction to having \"the real you\" on something like Facebook, but it's even more important to protect \"the multiple virtual you\".",
  "title": "Wonderful you",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "business/business",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/google"
  ],
  "lead": "Jack Schofield: Why you should protect your multiple, virtual identity - and why the plethora of social networks could make it much more difficult",
  "id": "commentisfree/2008/may/22/wonderfulyou",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}