{
  "content": "When I took the chairmanship of the newly-formed Human Genetics Commission I did so in the belief that the job would include, but not necessarily be dominated by, human rights. Now, after three years of working on genetic issues, I realise that one particular human right is at the very centre of this debate: to what extent do we have a right to genetic privacy? The question might strike some as odd. Our genes may be of importance to us, but there's no reason why anybody else should want to snoop about our DNA. But there are in fact reasons why others might be interested in what your individual genome is like, and these reasons are making it necessary to defend genetic privacy. The state has an interest in the individual's genetic make-up in two contexts: personal identification and health. As far as identification is concerned, DNA is a very accurate, simple method of proving who is who and, importantly, whether people are related. The real identification issue, however, is the use of DNA in criminal justice. In the UK, we have the largest centralised DNA police database in the world. Identifying information on more than a million people is currently stored on this database, and it is the government's intention to increase this to some 3 million. Do we need to worry about this? Frankly, yes. My concern here is that it is very easy to get on to the database and impossible to get off. So if you are suspected of a recordable offence, a DNA sample can be taken from you and the profile entered on the database. Your physical sample (cells taken by swab from the mouth) will also be stored indefinitely. If you cease to be a suspect, or if you are acquitted of the offence, you remain there whether you like it or not. The government has promised that serious consideration will be given to the setting up of an independent body to oversee this powerful database.We await the response with interest. Outside the area of criminal justice, the handing over of genetic information is likely to be voluntary, and mostly done in the course of medical treatment. There are reasonable safeguards to protect privacy and confidentiality in the health service, but we are going to have to be careful that the ethic of medical confidentiality is not too readily eroded by administrative considerations and by the ease with which genetic testing will be able to be done in the future. The problem here, as I see it, is in emphasising good old-fashioned rights to privacy in the face of large bureaucracies with a well-meaning agenda of their own. There has been a very important recent example of this tension. Section 60 of the Health and Social Care Act allows access to confidential patient information without consent when this is deemed necessary for health-related purposes. While these arrangements are transitional, the public should be alert to the risks. And finally, there is the vexed issue of protecting the DNA of individuals from being analysed by people who have no right to do so. We have made a strong recommendation that it might be a criminal offence for persons with no right to do so to wrongfully gain access to your DNA in order to satisfy some curiosity on their part (whether about paternity or illness or whatever). We think that the state must show that it really means it when it says that your DNA is your own affair. \u00b7 Helena Kennedy QC is chair of the Human Genetics Commission.",
  "title": "The secret life of samples",
  "lead": "Ministers must act now to ensure the secrets of our DNA are not abused, says Helena Kennedy.",
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "uk/2002/sep/21/privacy7",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}