{
  "content": "Britain's security services may need greater powers of surveillance to monitor British citizens who have gone to join the fighting in Syria and Iraq, according to the former Conservative defence secretary Liam Fox. As further details emerged about the latest young Britons to join Sunni insurgents, Fox said that the majority of people in the UK would accept that the level of the threat meant that officials would need greater powers to intercept the communications of extremists. \"The whole area of intercept needs to be looked at,\" he said. \"We have got a real debate, and it is a genuine debate in a democracy, between the libertarians who say the state must not get too powerful and pretty much the rest of us who say the state must protect itself.\" Asked whether this meant more surveillance and increasing the resources for the intelligence agencies, Fox told the BBC: \"If required, it is the first duty of the state to protect its citizens \u2026 it is a real worry and it is a problem that is going to be with us for a very long time. At heart it is an ideological battle and we have to realise that we have to win the ideological battle as well.\" The remarks by Fox suggests that figures, particularly on the right, will use the success of extremists in Iraq and Syria to challenge the claim by the whistleblower Edward Snowden that the state has excessive powers of mass surveillance. Snowden leaked a series of National Security Agency files to the former Guardian journalist Glenn Greenwald last year, revealing the ability of the US and UK intelligence agencies to scoop up huge amounts of online communications \u2013 often with little or no oversight. Fox said: \"You have people at the moment, in light of Snowden, saying the state has too many powers, we have to restrict the powers of the state. We'd better start to reconsider that.\" He also joined other cabinet ministers saying that the UK should be prepared to offer the US logistical support in any air campaign against the terrorist group Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (Isis), which has taken over towns and cities in the north of Iraq and now poses a threat to Baghdad. Fox said: \"There are those who say if we don't get involved, if we hunker down, then we will be fine. There will be no backlash. That is utterly, utterly wrong because the jihadists don't hate us because of what we do. They hate us because of who we are. We can't change that. It is our values and our history that they detest more than anything else.\" Concern around the impact of the escalating conflict in Syria and Iraq was underlined by Cressida Dick, the Metropolitan police assistant commissioner and head of specialist operations, who on Sunday warned there would be long-term security implications for the UK. She said: \"I believe that we will be living with the consequences of Syria \u2013 from a terrorist point of view, let alone the world, geopolitical consequences \u2013 for many, many, many years to come.\" Another senior security figure, Richard Barrett, former head of counter-terrorism at MI6, estimated that up to 300 people had already returned to the UK after joining the fighting in Syria, and that intelligence services faced a near-impossible task trying to track them. \"Although there is no linear projection from foreign fighters to domestic terrorists, it's inevitable that a number will fall into this category,\" Barrett said. Barrett has co-authored a report, released this month, which concludes that more than 12,000 foreign fighters have gone to Syria since the war began, and that it is \"likely to be an incubator for a new generation of terrorists\". Police across the UK have made 65 Syria-related arrests over the past 18 months, including 40 in the first three months of this year. Sir Peter Fahy, who leads on the Prevent counter-terrorism strategy for the Association of Chief Police Officers, said \"huge amounts of material\" was being taken down from the internet every week as part of the effort to stop people being radicalised. On Saturday an estimated 5,000 Muslims gathered in Surrey to pledge loyalty to Britain in light of concerns over the popularity of Isis and the alleged involvement of Britons. The three-day residential event, organised by the Ahmadiyya Muslim Youth Association (Amya), has brought together 5,000 young British Muslim men from England, Scotland and Wales, to foster bonds of brotherhood and affirm their pride in being British and Muslim.",
  "title": "Liam Fox calls for greater surveillance powers for security services",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/mi5",
    "uk/mi6",
    "world/espionage",
    "world/surveillance",
    "world/syria",
    "world/iraq",
    "world/privacy",
    "politics/liamfox",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world",
    "politics/politics"
  ],
  "lead": "Former defence secretary says intelligence agencies must be allowed to gather more data on British citizens fighting abroad",
  "id": "uk-news/2014/jun/22/liam-fox-surveillance-powers-british-jihadists",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}