{
  "content": "Fruit Salad Ice Pops 1 peach, cut into 1cm slices 2 kiwis, peeled and sliced into 5mm rounds 75g blueberries 110g strawberries, hulled and halved 350-500ml white grape juice Snugly arrange some of each fruit in eight 75g ice lolly moulds. Pour enough juice into each mould to just cover the fruit. Insert sticks and freeze until solid, six hours (or up to two weeks). From marthastewart.com Annie's Fruit Salsa and Cinnamon Chips Serves 10 2 kiwis, peeled and diced 2 apples, peeled, cored and diced 225g raspberries 450g strawberries, diced 2 tbsp white sugar 1 tbsp brown sugar 3 tbsp jam For the cinnamon chips 10 flour tortillas Butter-flavoured cooking spray 2 tbsp cinnamon sugar In a medium-sized bowl, mix together all the chopped and whole fruit, the sugar and jam. Cover and chill for at least 15 minutes. Heat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Spray one side of each tortilla with cooking spray and sprinkle with cinnamon sugar. Cut into wedges/strips. Spray again. Arrange on a baking sheet and cook for eight-10 minutes. Repeat with the remaining tortillas. Leave to cool for 15 minutes, then serve with the chilled fruit. From morganmoore.typepad.com. Recipe adapted from allrecipes.com Cheesecake-stuffed strawberries Makes approx 12 450g large strawberries 230g cream cheese, softened 3-4 tbsp icing sugar 1 tsp vanilla extract Digestive biscuit crumbs Rinse the strawberries under cold water, remove the tops and clean out the centres with a paring knife. Beat the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla until creamy. Spoon into a piping bag and fill each of the strawberry cavities. Once filled, dip the tops in the biscuit crumbs. If not serving immediately, refrigerate. From thesweetlife.com, adapted from the recipe on nutmegnanny.com Watermelon-Berry Sorbet Serves six 240ml water 125g sugar 300g watermelon cubes 225g fresh berries (raspberries, strawberries and/or blueberries) Snipped fresh lemon balm (available from health food stores) Fresh lemon balm sprigs Fresh raspberries and/or blueberries (optional) In a medium-sized saucepan, combine water and sugar, and bring to a boil, stirring frequently. Boil gently, uncovered, for two minutes. Remove from heat and cool slightly. Blend the watermelon and berries in a food processor for 30 seconds. Add the warm syrup and blend until almost smooth. Transfer the mixture to a rectangular baking dish and place in the freezer, uncovered, for 1\u00bd hours, or until almost solid. Remove the sorbet from the freezer. Using a fork, break up the frozen fruit into a smooth mixture. Stir in the snipped lemon balm and freeze for a further hour (if the mixture is frozen longer than the final hour, let it stand at room temperature for about 20 minutes before serving). Break up the ice with a fork and serve in shallow bowls. Top with lemon balm sprigs and a few raspberries and/or blueberries. From Better Homes And Gardens magazine Bite-sized brie Makes 24 squares 2 sheets puff pastry, thawed but still cold 1 large egg, beaten A splash of milk \u00bd round of brie, cold 80ml cherry jam (or any other flavour you fancy) Sea salt Cut the first puff pastry sheet into thirds, then cut each panel into four pieces. One sheet of puff pastry will yield 12 rectangles. Cut each rectangle in half. These 24 little rectangles will create 12 pockets, so repeat this method with the second sheet of pastry. Combine the beaten egg and a splash of milk, and brush on to 12 of the small pastry rectangles. Place a lolly stick halfway up the pastry and press in gently. Place a small sliver of brie (rind and all) on top of the pastry piece, then top it with about half a teaspoon of cherry jam. Take another pastry piece and press between your fingers to make the rectangle slightly larger. Place this on top of the piece holding the cheese and jam, and use a fork to press the edges together. The egg wash will act as a glue. Seal the edges well by crimping with the fork. Preheat your oven to 190C/375F/gas mark 5 and put a rack in the centre. Place the prepared brie bites on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Brush with egg wash and sprinkle with a touch of coarsely ground sea salt. Bake for 12 to 14 minutes or until the pastry is golden brown. Remove from the oven and allow to cool slightly before serving. Brie bites are best served warm, but are also delicious at room temperature. From joythebaker.com Pressed Italian sandwiches Serves six 3 red peppers Olive oil Salt and pepper 6 small ciabatta rolls (or large buns) 2-3 tbsp butter Around 250g-300g assorted Italian cold meats 200g mozzarella bocconcini, sliced Balsamic vinegar 1 large bunch of rocket, rinsed and patted dry Top, tail, de-seed and slice the peppers, then place, skin-side up, on a baking sheet, pressing gently so they lie as flat as possible. Cook them under the grill until charred, about 10 minutes. Remove and pop them into a sealable plastic bag and put in the fridge for 30-40 minutes. Once cooled, peel off and discard the blackened skin. Place the peppers in a small bowl, drizzle with olive oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper, then set aside. To prepare the sandwiches, cut your ciabatta in half and butter each piece (you could brush with olive oil, if you prefer, but butter will help prevent moisture getting into the bread). Place a layer of red pepper on the bottom slice and top with a generous layer of cold meat (five or six slices). Pat dry your mozzarella slices with a piece of paper towel, then add to the sandwich. Drizzle with balsamic vinegar and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Top with a generous layer of rocket, followed by your top slice of ciabatta. Wrap each sandwich tightly in clingfilm and place on a platter or baking tray. When all the sandwiches are prepared, move them to the fridge and place a heavy frying pan (or another baking tray, plus some large cans) on top to compress. Refrigerate for at least six hours or, ideally, overnight. When ready to serve, remove the clingfilm and, if you want to, trim the edges of the sandwiches to enjoy the wonderful colours inside. From seasonsandsuppers.ca Frozen strawberry mojito Serves a few friends 330ml frozen limeade (rarely found in the UK, so make your own, as below) 165ml rum 300g frozen strawberries Fresh mint 2 limes For the limeade concentrate 375g caster sugar 250ml water 375ml freshly squeezed lime juice First make the limeade concentrate. Heat the caster sugar and water in a medium saucepan until the sugar is dissolved. Let it cool for 10 minutes, then stir in the lime juice. This makes 750ml of concentrate; it can be frozen for up to six months. To make the mojito, combine the frozen limeade, rum, strawberries, fresh mint leaves and the pulp of two limes, and blend until smooth. From heatherross.squarespace.com Coconut chicken with sweet chilli dipping sauce Serves six 900g boneless, skinless chicken breasts 150g all-purpose flour \u00bd tsp salt 2 large eggs 280ml coconut milk 115g panko breadcrumbs 70g desiccated coconut 140ml vegetable oil, divided into two 70ml measures 140ml sweet chilli sauce Chopped coriander Cut each of the chicken breasts into six diagonal strips. In one bowl, combine the flour and salt. In another, whisk the eggs and coconut milk until combined. In a third bowl, stir together the panko breadcrumbs and coconut. Pour half the vegetable oil into a large heavy-duty griddle pan and heat over medium/high heat until it is just below smoking. While the oil is heating, coat each chicken strip in the flour and salt mixture. Then dip into the egg/coconut milk and finally coat each in the breadcrumbs and coconut. Place about six strips in the pan at once. Fry for two-three minutes on each side until golden brown and crispy. Place on a plate with a paper towel to drain and cook the next batch, adding more oil if necessary. Serve immediately with sweet chilli sauce to dip in. Garnish with chopped coriander. From budgetbytes.blogspot.co.uk Tomato Basil Mozzarella Salad Serves four to six 350g cherry tomatoes, halved 225g fresh \"mini\" mozzarella pearls 4 tbsp olive oil 18 basil leaves, chopped \u00bd tsp salt \u00bd tsp freshly ground pepper Put the tomatoes and mozzarella in a medium bowl, and drizzle over the oil. Add the basil, salt and pepper, and gently toss all the ingredients. From savorysweetlife.com Salad Sicilia Serves four to six 1 small head of radicchio 1 head of chicory 1 bunch of rocket 1 head of fennel 1 apple (rather sour) 4-5 small radishes 1-2 carrots 2-3 (blood) oranges White wine vinegar (optional) Olive oil Sea salt Freshly ground black pepper A pinch of sugar 1 handful of almonds (with or without skin) 1 handful of pistachios (with or without skin) Fresh ricotta or goat's cheese to serve First wash and prepare your salad ingredients. Discard any limp radicchio and chicory leaves, then cut into thin strips. Rinse under cold water, together with the arugula (cut off thick stems beforehand), then spin dry and put in a huge bowl. Quarter the fennel, trim and shave as thin as possible (if the fennel has some nice-looking green attached, chop that and add it, too). Quarter the apple (no need to peel it), remove the core and stem, then shave thinly. Cut the radishes into thin slices (or shave them, too). Peel the carrots and cut into julienne strips. Peel the oranges and fillet them (hold them above a bowl to catch the dripping juice, additionally squeeze the remaining parts and reserve for the salad dressing), then cut into smaller chunks. Use your hands to gently mix all the ingredients together. Now dress the salad with the reserved orange juice, vinegar (if desired), plenty of olive oil, salt, pepper and sugar. Mix well and arrange on a huge plate. Coarsely chop the nuts and sprinkle all over the salad. If you have fresh ricotta or soft goat's cheese to hand, you can crumble some over the salad, too. From deliciousdays.com Roasted lemon garlic herb shrimp Serves three-four 80ml olive oil 1 lemon, zested, then half cut into thin slices and the other half into wedges 3-4 fresh thyme sprigs, leaves picked Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper Spaghetti/pasta, couscous or rice for serving 2 tbsp butter \u00bdkg fresh shrimp, medium-sized, de-veined with tails off 5 cloves garlic, minced Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. In a glass baking dish combine the olive oil, lemon zest and thyme. This should liberally cover the bottom of the dish. If it doesn't, drizzle in a little more oil. Season with salt and pepper. Bake in oven for 10-12 minutes, checking every few minutes. If it looks as if it is getting too brown, remove and proceed to the next step. Meanwhile, cook the pasta, drain and toss with a pat of butter or olive oil. Remove the dish from the oven, add the butter and move it around a little to melt, then add the shrimp, garlic and the thin-sliced lemons (don't squeeze them); toss to coat with oil mixture. Bake for 8-10 more minutes or until the shrimp turn pink and just start to curl. Serve over pasta, couscous or rice tossed with additional extra-virgin olive oil and freshly-squeezed lemon, with additional lemon wedges for serving. From Cinnamon Spice And Everything Nice. Recipe adapted from Fine Cooking. White bean salad with courgette and parmesan Serves four 800g cannellini beans, drained and rinsed 100g green beans, trimmed and thinly sliced diagonally 2 small courgettes, trimmed, quartered lengthways and thinly sliced diagonally 50g parmesan, crumbled 25g fresh basil leaves, torn Grated zest and juice of 2 lemons 1 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil Coarse salt and ground pepper Place the beans, courgettes, parmesan, basil, lemon zest and juice, and oil in a medium-sized bowl. Season with salt and pepper, and toss to combine. From marthastewart.com",
  "title": "Online, on your plate: summer recipes from hit website Pinterest",
  "lead": "From fruit salad ice pops to pressed Italian sandwiches, these are some of the most popular summer recipes on Pinterest, the world's fastest growing website and a haven for food lovers",
  "tags": [
    "lifeandstyle/food-and-drink",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "technology/pinterest",
    "lifeandstyle/salad",
    "lifeandstyle/baking",
    "lifeandstyle/seafood",
    "lifeandstyle/sandwiches",
    "lifeandstyle/dessert",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "lifeandstyle/2012/aug/03/pinterest-summer-recipes",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}