{
  "content": "Meerkat, a live-streaming phone app, became the latest fascination for many Twitter users on Wednesday, less than a week after its launch. The app, named after the small, carnivorous member of the mongoose family, is built to allow users to live-stream video straight to the web. It relies on Twitter to alert people to Meerkat broadcasts. It was launched on Friday 27 February by Life On Air, a live-stream startup team of just 10 people. Meerkat had originally been conceived as a side project but by Tuesday, Ben Rubin, the company's CEO, had decided to focus the whole team on Meerkat. Using Meerkat is simple. You download the app. You open the app. You sync it up with Twitter. There is a box saying \"Write what's happening \u2026\" After writing what is happening, there is a \"stream\" button to click on. Your phone's video screen appears, a tweet is sent out, and you are live-streaming. (Or Meerkating.) As people start to watch, their Twitter profile pictures appear on screen so you can see who is viewing and say hi. If your viewers tweet at you, the message also appears on the screen, allowing you to respond. Interestingly, those viewers' profile images will remain on screen long after they have closed down your broadcast. It leads to a false sense of importance, as well as (potentially) encouraging people to continue their live-streaming even if no one is watching. As for the viewing experience: the viewer must wait for someone to tweet out a broadcast, or alternatively search for \"meerkat\" and click on one of the thousands of available URLs. In a desktop browser, you are whisked off to meerkatapp.co. On a phone or tablet, you are taken to an in-app player that seemed a bit glitchy. The app works in portrait or landscape, but due to the route you take to it (from the home screen) I found you were likely to end up streaming in portrait. This is fine \u2013 unless you then want to publish that video afterwards, when portrait-viewing could be frustrating. (Note the YouTube video above.) Life On Air raised $3.6m before Meerkat's launch, the bulk of which came from Israeli company Aleph. When Meerkat went live it was a mere \"experimental side project\", Rubin said, according to the Wall Street Journal. Rubin said it had been built by Life On Air's chief technical officer in just eight weeks. Life On Air's main focus was intended to be \"air\", a live-streaming app designed to replace Rubin's previous success with the similar \"Yevvo\". Whereas air appears as if it was designed just to share experiences with friends \u2013 \"Stream live video to the people you care about,\" its website says \u2013 Meerkat streams live video publicly. All of Meerkat's features are currently available through existing live-streaming apps such as LiveStream and UStream, although Meerkat appears to have a more seamless connection to Twitter. One might venture that Livestream and Ustream are more useful, given that a meerkat broadcast is so ephemeral. It can only be watched while it is live. The broadcasts are not saved on the website. If you click on a link to a finished meerkat, you just get a message saying it has finished. There is also no option to embed your Meerkats, which limits the possibilities for journalists using it to stream live from breaking news scenes. Or for journalists wishing to embed their Meerkats in stories.",
  "title": "Testing out Meerkat: the app that brings live streaming to Twitter",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/apps",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "We test an app that lets you live stream video (or 'Meerkat') by tweeting out a link to your followers, who you can then say hello to",
  "id": "technology/2015/mar/05/meerkat-app-live-streaming-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}