{
  "content": "Glyncoch is a small village near Pontypridd in south Wales. The economic tides of the mining industry are still receding; deprivation is rife. Nearby, Sir Richard Attenborough is collaborating with the Welsh Development Agency to build a glitzy film studio (nicknamed Valleywood) to try to help the post-coal economy back on to its feet. But in Glyncoch itself, which comprises mainly social housing, a 2012 development plan had stalled. Plans for a new community centre hung in the balance as fundraising efforts for the first phase of building fell \u00a340,000 short of their \u00a3800,000 target. The existing centre was cramped and dilapidated. Maintenance costs were soaring and the services operating out of the centre were diminishing every year. While state-of-the-art film studios and new jobs popped up in neighbouring areas, local people were tantalisingly close to having a new centre that could host everything from bingo to taekwondo, but they would miss out if they couldn't raise the extra cash. Louisa Addiscott, youth and play development officer at Glyncoch Community Regeneration Ltd \u2013 a charitable organisation owned and run by a group of local people committed to seeing improvements in the area \u2013 led the plan to build the new centre. Not prepared to stumble at the last hurdle, she turned last year to a new method of raising urgently needed funds. The model she used was \"crowdfunding\" \u2013 harnessing the power of the internet and social media so that individuals and businesses can pledge money online to a good cause. It allows pledgers to chip in with a few pounds to financially support a project of their choice. As a result of the five-week-long crowdfunding campaign, Glyncoch community centre received backing from 107 people and businesses, including the local mayor and Tesco Charity Trust. It pushed them past their funding target, and building on the first phase of the centre started in September. When complete, the centre will host a wide range of daily activities that will include a learning programme, enterprise workshops, nightly events for children and young people, luncheon clubs for older people, community fitness sessions and socials. Doug Williams, deputy mayor of Rhondda Cynon Taf, is elated by the success. \"Stephen Fry heard about the campaign and tweeted about it and the money came flooding in from companies and individuals,\" he explains. \"Glyncoch is a deprived area; people are used to being let down. Now people are thinking, 'We can get out of this rut.' We are absolutely ecstatic.\" Glyncoch isn't the only community success story coming out of crowdfunding. Jessica Prendergrast, director at Minehead Eye, a social enterprise that provides a sports centre and youth centre in rural West Somerset, used it to raise \u00a35,000 towards a \u00a325,000 bouldering (rock climbing) room for its 1,000 young members. \"In West Somerset, nobody had ever done a crowdfunded campaign \u2013 we wanted to stand out and make a splash. It's a great excuse to speak again to all the people that support you \u2013 local councillors, community organisations. And we generated a huge amount of buzz on Facebook and Twitter,\" says Prendergrast. As an added incentive, Minehead Eye offered anyone who donated \u00a310 a free bouldering session for two when the room was built, and a party for them and 10 friends if they donated \u00a3100. Just across the county, in Frome, another project \u2013 to convert a public toilet into an art gallery \u2013 has just reached its \u00a310,000 target. \"I'm quite overwhelmed by the generosity of spirit in the town,\" explains Katy Duke, project co-ordinator for the planned Loop de Loop gallery. \"Aside from the money, we've had people donating in kind, like carpenters, graphic designers, plumbers and electricians.\" The campaign even attracted the support of local celebrity Kevin McCloud, presenter of the Channel 4 series Grand Designs, who donated \u00a3300. \"Public space needs creativity, it needs art, and it needs local involvement in order for it to thrive,\" he says. I had my first foray into crowdfunding last year, when I left my marketing job to start the Living Furniture Project. The plan was to employ homeless Londoners to make furniture, using 100% reclaimed materials. With a little less in my pocket than an aspiring social entrepreneur might like, I turned to a crowdfunding platform to raise funds for the first few months' salaries. In return, I offered thank-you emails, invites to our launch party, chairs and even naming rights for our first collection, depending on how generous donors had been. The campaign was successful, although hard work, and it required a lot of marketing. What the projects in Wales and Somerset share is that they have all used the crowdfunding platform Spacehive, which focuses on public-benefit projects and provides advice and support. Spacehive's founder, Chris Gourlay, explains: \"We've got to make sure your project is financially viable, and also has all the relevant planning permissions to make it feasible. But we help with this and can offer advice on how to access more funding once you're approved.\" The site has enabled 16 new community projects to get off the ground across the UK. If a project reaches its funding target within an agreed timeline, it gets to keep the money, with Spacehive taking a small commission. But the all-or-nothing model of crowdfunding means that, if the project fails to reach its target by a certain date, the online pledges are automatically returned to donors. \"So far, projects have raised \u00a3300,000 from individuals registered on the site,\" says Gourlay. But he is the first to admit that crowdsourcing is no substitute for more traditional financial support. \"This has then been used to leverage a further \u00a32m in more conventional funding, be it from local government or lottery funding. We want to work alongside existing funding solutions and not replace them,\" he says. In Glyncoch, the majority of the funding for the community centre came from the Welsh government, European funding and an aggregate levy that the village receives for being located next to a quarry. Gourlay argues that local people in poorer areas should not be exempt from being asked to put their hand in their pocket to contribute to a community resource. \"You might spend a certain amount on toys for your children each year. Maybe you could take that money and put it into a local project, and everyone can benefit, including your kids. Then you might not need the toys,\" he says. Crowdfunding is not new. In 2006, Fordhall Farm in Shropshire became a community-owned farm when Guardian readers helped to raise the best part of \u00a3100,000 after an article urged them to contribute to a fund set up to buy and run one of the first organic farms in England. But the history of crowdfunding for public projects goes back even further. In 1884, the Statue of Liberty pedestal was built following a campaign by newspaper owner Joseph Pulitzer. Together, 125,000 New Yorkers contributed $100,000 (\u00a365,000) over six months. The majority of donations were $1 or less. The internet, however, has given this type of fundraising a huge boost. Crowdfunding websites helped companies and individuals worldwide raise $2.7bn (\u00a31.7bn) from members of the public in 2012, an 81% increase on the previous year. Of this total, $1.4bn (\u00a393m) was to fund good causes. This year, the total is expected to top $5bn (\u00a33.3bn). Back in Glyncoch, Addiscott says: \"One of the key things you've got to realise is that it is a joint effort. You have to be ready to do a lot of work, and make sure you have lots of people behind you. Raising money locally is important. Don't go in there thinking it will be an easy ride.\" Alastair Sloan is founder of The Living Furniture Project",
  "title": "Crowdfunding helps community projects bridge cash shortfall",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "society/society",
    "society/communities",
    "society/socialenterprises",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Crowdfunding is coming to the rescue of community groups and social enterprises",
  "id": "society/2013/may/28/crowdfunding-community-projects",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}