{
  "content": "Today is Yom Kippur, the Jewish day of atonement. The holiest of Jewish festivals, it is a time for repentance, for \"teshuva\". At the end of the day the judgment of God is entered in the book of life. This is the last chance to amend what is written. As the congregation stands before the open ark containing the Torah scrolls, it is a final opportunity to say sorry and to put things right. When the shofar, the ram's horn, blows at the end of the day, the book of life will close and one's sins will be recorded forever. Repentance and forgiveness are at the heart of the Judeo-Christian tradition. Which is why Leo Traynor's recent blogpost offers such a perfect and intensely moving reflection on the practicalities of forgiveness. It all began with Traynor being hounded off Twitter after receiving sustained and poisonous abuse \u2013 being called, among other things, a \"Dirty fucking Jewish scumbag\" \u2013 and then finding a Tupperware box full of ashes delivered to his home address with a covering note, \"Say hello to your relatives from Auschwitz\". Two days later dead flowers arrived and a further direct message to accompany: \"You'll get home some day &amp; ur bitches throat will be cut and your son will be gone.\" Traynor was unable to sleep. Not in great health, he paced about his house for nights, watching over his sleeping family, understandably terrified that some harm was going to come to them. He reported the abuse to the authorities, but they were unable to help. Eventually he acted for himself. He found an IT whizz who tracked down the IP address of his tormentor and then traced it back to a house address \u2013 the address of a friend of his. The troll was his friend's son. Instead of calling in the police, Traynor arranged a meeting with the 17-year-old and his parents. He bought tea and chocolate chip cookies. And then opened a file containing the evidence. Here was the book of life. Traynor's account of what happened next is brief \u2013 the sort of profound brevity that allows the events themselves to carry the weight of significance. \"Why?\" asked Traynor. The troll began to cry. \"I don't know, I don't know. I'm sorry. It was like a game thing.\" A bloody game thing. Then Traynor gave a short speech that is the perfect embodiment of Yom Kippur. \"Look at me. I'm a middle-aged man with a limp and a wheeze and a son and a wife that I love. I'm not just a little avatar of an eye. You're better than this. You have a name of your own. Be proud of it. Don't hide it again and I wont ruin it if you play ball with your parents. Now shake hands.\" The troll said sorry. \"Thanks for giving me a break, dude.\" That was it. For those of us who are people of faith, one could almost have heard the ram's horn giving its final blast. A stupid and cruel young man was saved not just from the police but also from the final judgment of God. Traynor's blog is called Traynor's Eye. His bespectacled eye looks directly out of the screen and meets the gaze of the viewer. God's eye does the same. And there is no hiding from it behind the anonymity of Twitter. He is the judge of all and knows all the secrets of our hearts. I have no idea whether Traynor is a practising Jew. God is not mentioned in his story. To me, that matters little. What he offers in his blog is a beautiful and concrete reflection of what teshuva really looks like. During the course of the Yom Kippur liturgy, the book of Jonah is recited as a reminder of God's willingness to forgive. Leo Traynor is my hero of Yom Kippur. \u2022 This article was amended on 27 September 2012 because the original referred to the book of Job when it meant the book of Jonah. This has been corrected.",
  "title": "Leo Traynor is my hero of Yom Kippur | Giles Fraser",
  "lead": "Giles Fraser: On this day of repentance, Traynor's treatment of his stupid and cruel troll is a moving reminder of God's willingness to forgive",
  "tags": [
    "world/judaism",
    "world/religion",
    "world/world",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/belief/2012/sep/26/leo-traynor-hero-yom-kippur",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}