{
  "content": "A British man accused of hacking into the US military computer system left a note on an army computer saying US foreign policy \"is akin to government-sponsored terrorism\", a court heard today. Gary McKinnon's note continued: \"It was not a mistake that there was a huge security stand-down on September 11 last year ... I am SOLO [the name by which he was known online]. I will continue to disrupt at the highest levels,\" the court was told. Mr McKinnon, 39, faces extradition to the US over claims he accessed dozens of government computers over a one-year period, causing $700,000 (\u00a3370,000) worth of damage. One of the allegations relates to the deletion of operating system files and logs from computers at US naval weapons station Earle at a critical time following the September 11 attacks, which rendered the base's entire network of more than 300 computers inoperable. His ultimate goal had been to gain access to the US military's classified information network, Bow Street magistrates' court heard. Mr McKinnon, 39, of Wood Green, north London, is contesting the extradition request. He is accused of 20 counts relating to the US army and navy, the space agency Nasa, the department of defence and the air force. These include accessing computers, intending to steal computer files and data, and stealing computer files. He is also alleged to have obtained secret passwords or information that might become \"indirectly useful to an enemy\", and interfered with maritime navigation facilities in New Jersey. Mark Summers, for the US government, told the court: \"During a period from February 2001 to March 2002 the defendant gained unauthorised access to 97 government computers. He was acting from his own computer in London. \"Via the internet, the defendant identified US government network computers with an open Microsoft Windows connection.\" Mr Summers said that Mr McKinnon, having gained access to administrative accounts, installed unauthorised remote access and administration software, named \"remotely anywhere\", which enabled him to control and alter data on the US computers without detection. \"He effectively owned those computers by virtue of the software that he had transmitted,\" Mr Summers said. He said Mr McKinnon had been able to scan more than 73,000 US government computers, and was able to \"lever himself from network to network and into a total of 97 government computers throughout the US\". Mr McKinnon is also accused of deleting files capable of shutting down the entire network of more than 2,000 computers in the US army's military district of Washington for 24 hours, \"significantly disrupting governmental function\". Mr Summers said: \"The defendant's conduct was intentional and calculated to influence and affect the US government by intimidation and coercion.\" Mr McKinnon, dressed in a grey suit, spoke only to confirm his name during today's hearing, which was adjourned until October 18. As bail conditions, district judge Nicholas Evans ordered him to report to his local police station twice a week, not to apply for any international travel documents and not to use any computer equipment that would allow him access to the internet. Speaking outside court, his solicitor, Karen Todner, said: \"Gary McKinnon continues to vigorously contest his extradition, which has been requested belatedly by the US government. It is unknown why there has been such a delay in requesting such extradition. \"The British public need to ask themselves why British citizens are being extradited to the USA when the US government has not signed the extradition treaty between the two countries.\" She said her client faces a maximum possible sentence of 70 years if found guilty in the US. Mr McKinnon was initially indicted in 2002 by a federal grand jury on eight counts of computer-related crime in 14 different states. Speaking at the time of the indictment, Paul McNulty, the US attorney for the eastern district of Virginia, said: \"Mr McKinnon is charged with the biggest computer hack of all time.\"",
  "title": "Hacker 'left note on US army computer'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/cybercrime",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "uk/uk",
    "us-news/us-national-security",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "us-news/us-military"
  ],
  "lead": "A British man accused of hacking into the US military computer system left a note on an army computer saying US foreign policy \"is akin to government-sponsored terrorism\", a court heard today.",
  "id": "technology/2005/jul/27/hacking.internetcrime",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}