{
  "content": "MySpace has cracked the 10 million user mark in the UK, meaning more people have put a profile up than drink bitter, according to the social networking website. According to MySpace UK's own internal user log, London, Manchester and Birmingham are the cities with the most MySpace users, with 1.8 million, 721,000 and 589,000 user profiles respectively. At the other end of the scale, Lowther in Cumbria, Attleborough in Norfolk and Thanet in Kent are the \"least friendly\" places in the UK with each town boasting just one MySpace user. MySpace launched a UK version of its website in April last year with 3.6 million users. This figure has since grown by 286% to 10.2 million monthly unique users, according to figures provided by MySpace. MySpace reckons that about the same number of people use its social networking website as own a dog - there are some 10.3 million dog owners across the country - and it is more popular than drinking bitter, with around 9.2 million real ale drinkers in the UK. The UK's favourite MySpace profile with 627,515 \"friends\" is Project Red, the global fund to fight Aids co-founded by U2 frontman Bono. Damon Albarn's virtual band Gorillaz is second with 603,394 MySpace friends, and Welsh band Bullet for my Valentine is third with 450,000 friends. \"The fact that the top three MySpace profiles are a charitable campaign, a major pop group and an indie rock band shows the diversity of the MySpace community,\" said the MySpace Europe senior vice-president of marketing and content, Jamie Kantrowitz. However, with eight of the top 10 most popular UK profiles relating to bands and artists, MySpace is still firmly the social networking site most closely associated with music fans. The top 10 is rounded out, in descending order, by the profiles for artists Imogen Heap, Lily Allen and Coldplay, followed by the Find Madeleine profile, and music profiles for Oasis, Lost Prophets and James Blunt. In the sporting-related category Manchester United defender Rio Ferdinand comes out on top, following his tie-up with P Diddy earlier this year. Formula one driver Lewis Hamilton is second and Wayne Rooney third. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "MySpace UK breaks 10m users barrier",
  "lead": "8am: More people in the UK have a MySpace profile than drink bitter, according to the social networking website. By Mark Sweney",
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/myspace",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/web20",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2007/jul/10/digitalmedia.myspace",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}