{
  "content": "At the beginning of this month, Clay Shirky offered some thoughts on how we journalists might like to think about our digital future. His essay (it seems trite to describe it as a mere posting), Institutions, confidence, and the news crisis, is short but, as ever, thoughtful. He begins by explaining the nature of institutions. Their value lies in stability. Their problem lies in their lack of genuine adaptability. The leopard cannot change its spots. Newspapers are institutions (\"the press\" is an institution and, arguably, in its totality, so is \"the media\"). In seeking to sustain themselves, institutions evolve. But they do so, quite naturally, in order to ensure their survival. Yet, when it comes to newspapers, adaptation in the face of the internet has come at the expense of the very reason for their existence - the dissemination of public interest news. Shirky punctures the myth that newsprint newspapers are now doing the job their apologists claim for them - publishing hard news - and then he questions those who seem to believe that failing newspapers can be sustained by merely accommodating the digital revolution. It reminded me of comments at a Limerick University conference a couple of weeks back in which speakers upset by my presentation suggested that all was well with their joint print-online platforms. Even those willing to admit to a funding \"crisis\" seemed to believe that things would come right in the end. And if they didn't, they didn't. Nothing they could do about it. None talked about the need to grasp the journalistic opportunities opened up by the digital revolution (not least because they view journalism as a business and not as an activity). Similarly, they cannot grasp that it is a revolution. They see the move from print to screen in evolutionary terms. Big mistake. Anyway, back to Shirky. His central point is that experimentation within the context of preserving the traditional newspaper (its institutional form) - or, more properly, traditional journalism - is counter-revolutionary. That's Plan A, he writes. In advocating a Plan B, he points to Jonathan Stray's challenging essay, What should the digital public sphere do? This, in essence, questions the very existence of media institutions in their current form. Shirky writes: \"In a world where Wikipedia is a more popular source of information than any newspaper, maybe we won't have a clear centre anymore. Maybe we'll just have lots of overlapping, partial, competitive, cooperative attempts to arm the public to deal with the world we live in.\" I hear newspaper veterans groaning. They go on believing that journalism of the old school - and, incidentally, it is always a school from a generation, or even generations, ago - is the only valid form of journalism. It is not. People using digital technology and the tools it has spawned, such as social networking, are changing journalism in front of their eyes (though they are surely turning a blind eye). They should, instead, take to heart Shirky's conclusion: \"If you believe, as I do, that many of those institutions are so mismatched to the task at hand that most of them face a choice, at best, between radical restructure and outright collapse, well, in that case, you'd probably find the smartest 25 year olds you know, and try to convince them that now would be a pretty good time to start working on Plan B.\" Absolutely. Sources: Clay Shirky/Jonathan Stray Hat tip: George Brock",
  "title": "Here is the news - newspaper organisations defy the digital revolution",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "technology/clay-shirky",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/wikipedia",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade backs Clay Shirky's call for genuine experimentation while conceding that newspaper leopards cannot change their spots",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2011/dec/29/clay-shirky-digital-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}