{
  "content": "Hi Sarah, what can you tell me about the Royal Shakespeare Company and your role there? The Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) creates theatre at its best, made in Stratford-upon-Avon and shared around the world. Everyone at the RSC \u2013 from the actors and armourers to the musicians and technicians \u2013 plays a part in creating the world you see on stage. All our productions start at our Stratford workshops and theatres, before we bring them to the widest possible audience through our touring, residencies, live broadcasts and online activity. So wherever you experience the RSC, you experience work made in Shakespeare's home town. As head of digital development, I create new artistic digital initiatives and partnerships. I also have responsibilities for digital activity throughout the company. Your session at today's Digital Utopias event will be about designing performance. How is performance at the RSC being enhanced by new tech? Digital is not just online and virtual; it's also personal and everyday. Technology has changed our workforce, relationships, maps, economies and priorities. However, artists can invert this so the technology itself becomes changed, enabling new thinking. Performance design can challenge technology to dance with an actor on stage: an email becomes a story; a text becomes a killer line; an Instagram shot becomes a painting; a Vine becomes a scene; an LED gauze becomes a cloak of invisibility. Digital is the live conversation of the day and the arts is the crucible where we come together to shape, evolve and make sense of what is before us. At the event I'll be referencing several key examples from our online space, myShakespeare, where we commissioned artists, poets, technologists, coders, writers, musicians and students to create new work that interpreted Shakespeare online. We created a data aggregator called Banquo, which showed us Shakespeare's world through Twitter, Flickr and eBay. We also turned Shakespeare quotes into news headings. Platforms such as Tumblr and YouTube became a canvas for writers. Video mapping traced an actor's movements on stage. We placed sensors around the building to bring it alive online and tell the story. Another example happened in 2013, when we explored what A Midsummer Night's Dream would look like online and through social media. It was an ambitious experiment that saw us commission a group of artists to work with a wider online community, who uploaded user-generated content. The performance took place over three days. More than 3,000 pieces of content were shared (one-third of which were created by the public) and reached 30 million people on social media. We also recently produced a prototype theatre book with creative duo Davy and Kristin McGuire, funded by React. It's a beautifully-crafted physical object that uses the structure of a pop-up book, so when you turn the page, the story comes to life with pinpoint projection-mapped accuracy through carefully positioned mirrors and micro-projectors connected by Raspberry Pi computer units. What are the challenges in combining performance with digital platforms and technology? Although some technologies, such as those involving devices, have become cheaper, there are still considerable costs involved. Projection mapping, coding and programmer time \u2013 technical expertise found outside the arts sector \u2013 are often far greater than an arts budget can afford. I think that will change as more technology skills are developed in-house and within the sector, but it's a challenge for now. Guaranteeing the functionality and reliability of new technologies are also challenges. RSC productions are performed every day in theatres around the world, so the technology needs to be robust, reliable and fixable. Is there ever a danger the tech can trump the creative elements of a performance? You have to ask yourself: is it a performance or a showcase? Are you telling a story or presenting a piece of tech and need a story to support it? Why are we using this technology to do this job? Could it be done by something else? So long as the tech is there to inform the creativity, rather than the other way round, it shouldn't be a problem. Do you think arts organisations could do more to embrace digital? Yes, organisations are doing more to embrace digital and we should keep encouraging them to do so. A wave of early adopters and digital pioneers within organisations did a huge amount to create the conditions we have now. Digital is a mainstream conversation for the arts and we're mapping that landscape together. Support and development still have a way to go, but we're at a different stage to what we were a few years ago. I've seen a lot of great practice over the past few years from a wide range of organisations: Watershed, Tate, the V&amp;A, Storythings, Caper, Culture 24, Abandon Normal Devices, Blast Theory, Coney and Pilot Theatre are all \u2013 in their own ways \u2013 shaping, questioning and defining digital narratives in the arts. There are also plenty of individual innovators in the sector with exploration in their DNA. They are essential and need a different framework for their findings to come through, which organisations can support. Digital will open up fantastic possibilities but also bring challenges. An over-reliance on digital as a solution will create an imbalance and won't bring people with you. It's important that we don't try to create a one-size-fits-all digital doctrine for the arts or reduce the cultural value debate to hits online. We are in the digital age and it's people's imaginations and ingenuity that can use technology to turn this into something amazing. Find out more about the Digital Utopias conference here Sarah Ellis is head of digital development at the Royal Shakespeare Company More like this \u2022 Rifco chief: 'Diversity does not always mean cost' \u2022 Mary Rose Trust chief: from commanding officer to museum CEO \u2022 More from our Arts head series Join our community of arts, culture and creative professionals by signing up free to the Guardian Culture Pros Network.",
  "title": "RSC head of digital development: tech must inform creativity, not trump it | Arts head",
  "lead": "The Royal Shakespeare Company's Sarah Ellis on bringing A Midsummer Night's Dream online and what the Bard's world would look like on eBay",
  "tags": [
    "culture-professionals-network/culture-professionals-network",
    "culture-professionals-network/digital",
    "culture-professionals-network/audiences",
    "culture-professionals-network/development",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "culture/shakespeare",
    "culture/culture",
    "stage/theatre",
    "stage/stage"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "culture-professionals-network/2015/jan/20/rsc-digital-development-tech-shakespeare",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}