{
  "content": "The media face a new and unforeseen legal threat with the disclosure last week of a judge's ruling that newspaper articles causing \"alarm or distress\" can amount to harassment. Esther Thomas, a former clerk with the City of London police, won the ruling against the Sun under the 1997 Protection from Harassment Act, the law designed to deter stalkers. She received race-related hate mail after two articles blamed her for disciplinary action that led to the demotion of two police sergeants and a \u00a3700 fine for another over an incident involving an asylum seeker. Andrew Neil belittled the judgment on Radio 4's The World Tonight, noting that it was delivered by a \"little county court judge\", and predicting that it would be overturned by the Court of Appeal. But the Guardian has now discovered that an injunction under the same act was nearly granted last March by a High Court judge and was averted only when the paper, the Daily Mail, offered an undertaking instead. Birmingham law firm Tyndallwoods and counsel Stephanie Harrison, representing an Algerian asylum seeker, went to court for an emergency injunction to try to stop the Mail from publishing an article suggesting he was a terrorist. Mr Justice Hooper said that he was \"minded\" to grant the order and asked the Mail to send a lawyer to put its case. The lawyer gave an undertaking that the paper would take legal advice on whether it would be \"reasonable\" to publish the article - a defence under the act. The threatened story never appeared. The Mail had earlier run a front page story accusing the man, who has two wives and 13 children, of being a benefits scrounger. Pictures of him and his wives were published and the streets where the family live in two houses were identified. A reporter and photographer went into the mosque where he was praying and tried to interview him. Apart from the fear of racist attacks, the judge was told that the man's life would be in danger if the article was published. It could also affect the outcome of his asylum application, which was eventually successful. Will the new legal weapon threaten investigative journalism? Stephen Grosz, a media and human rights lawyer at Bindman and Partners, thinks not. \"When you're considering what the defence of reasonableness means, you're going to have to look at the right to freedom of expression and the whole line the court has always run about the press being a public watchdog. I don't see it as a fetter or limitation on press freedom, save in cases where there is an overriding need to protect privacy.\" \u0095 Media Guardian has received several calls from readers wishing to contribute to Esther Thomas's legal fund. For those who would like to, cheques made payable to North Lambeth Law Centre can be sent to: Lawrence Davies, North Lambeth Law Centre, 14 Bowden Street, London SE11 4DS. Please write \"Esther Thomas Fund\" on the back of the cheque.",
  "title": "Know your way around the courts",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "A judge has ruled that newspaper articles causing \"alarm or distress\" can amount to harassment, writes Clare Dyer",
  "id": "media/2001/mar/19/pressandpublishing.privacy1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}