{
  "content": "The use of social media as a powerful tool for social movement is unquestionable. From Human Rights Campaign's red equal sign and the It Gets Better Project to the more recent #BringBackOurGirls campaign, social media has proven highly effective at drawing attention to a cause. Any individual or organisation can launch a campaign on social media, but simply starting a movement is not enough. The goal is to champion a cause in such a way that it resonates with others. When it comes to creating a social media campaign that engages with people on a human level, the following five elements are key. Pick a cause you believe in The obvious first step is to pick a specific cause \u2013 such as raising awareness of a political concern, fundraising for a charity or highlighting an environmental issue. The important thing is that it's something you genuinely believe in. Authenticity is a key aspect of a successful social media movement. A campaign that appears to be self-serving won't resonate with others and is unlikely to have a significant impact. Define the goal of the campaign The aim of the social media campaign must be clearly defined. This objective will influence everything from the language used, the platforms that are leveraged to how people engage with the campaign. Determining the ultimate goal will also help to create a compelling call to action. By giving people something they can respond to and rally behind, you greatly increase the chances of the campaign going viral. Show what the cause means to you The virality of a movement on social media is determined by whether people can empathise on a human level. You need to show why people should care about a particular cause andwhat impact it could have on them or someone around them. By providing your personal reasons for supporting this cause, you can lend credibility and increase the likelihood that it will strike a chord with people in your network. Let others share their story The most effective campaigns have a human touch that people can connect with and that prompts them to share their experiences. A campaign must provide a platform for contributors to express what a particular cause means to them. It should also give people the flexibility to share in a manner that suits them best \u2013 the It Gets Better Project enables contributors to share both video and written submissions of their stories. A social media movement that fails to allow people to add their own experiences is less likely to take off. In fact, it is the emotion that others express in response to the cause that enables a campaign to gain traction. Select the right social media tools The tools you use will depend on your objective. If it's to raise awareness, effective messaging and a social presence may be all that's needed. Idle No More was initially viewed as a local campaign before it used Facebook and Twitter to gain international recognition. A petition platform \u2013 such as Change.org \u2013 can be combined with social networks to urge policymakers to address a political or societal issue. The Guardian-backed End FGM Campaign is a good case in point. If the aim is to gather and showcase personal experiences, it's important to make it easy for contributors to share their stories. When starting an effective social media movement, it's worth remembering that the greater the authenticity and flexibility, the greater the chance of virality and, ultimately, success. Jean Dobey is the chief executive of Hibe.com. For more news, opinions and ideas about the voluntary sector, join our community - it's free!",
  "title": "Five ways to turn a social media campaign into a movement",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network-blog",
    "voluntary-sector-network/impact-and-effectiveness",
    "voluntary-sector-network/fundraising",
    "voluntary-sector-network/how-to-guides-for-small-charities",
    "society/charities",
    "society/voluntarysector",
    "society/society",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Pick a specific cause and appeal on a human level. Jean Dobey explains how charities can make the most of social media",
  "id": "voluntary-sector-network/2014/jun/25/five-ways-to-turn-social-media-campaign-into-movement",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}