{
  "content": "Three photographers who took pictures of the car crash that killed Diana, Princess of Wales go on trial in Paris today in a case that will trigger fresh debate over privacy and press freedom. Jacques Langevin, Christian Martinez and Fabrice Chassery are charged with taking photographs of the inside of the wreckage of the car, which amounts to invasion of privacy under France's strict privacy laws. Although the photographs taken at the site were confiscated and have never been published, the three men could each face a year in jail and a \u00a330,000 fine if they are found guilty. Mohamed Al Fayed, whose son Dodi also died in the accident, brought the charges after separate manslaughter charges against the photographers were dropped during an earlier inquiry. The judge dismissed the case against five other photographers who took pictures at the crash scene. The charges are expected to trigger a bitter battle over press freedom, particularly in the case of Langevin, who arrived at the scene 15 minutes after the crash and was not part of the group pursuing the Mercedes in which the princess was travelling. Action brought by French pop star Michel Sardou has established the principle under French law that the inside of a car should be regarded as private as the inside of a house. Princess Diana died on August 31 1997, when the car she was travelling in crashed in a Paris underpass. Today's case is particularly timely because it follows this week's claim by the princess's former butler, Paul Burrell, that she feared she would be killed in a car crash. Earlier this week Mr Fayed, owner of the Harrods department store, renewed his call for a public inquiry following Mr Burrell's allegation in the Daily Mirror that the princess wrote to him alleging a plot to tamper with the brakes of her car. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857",
  "title": "Diana crash photographers stand trial",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/daily-mirror",
    "media/medialaw",
    "uk/diana",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": " Three photographers who took pictures of the car crash that killed Princess Diana go on trial in Paris today in a case that will trigger debate over press freedom. By Claire Cozens",
  "id": "media/2003/oct/24/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}