{
  "content": "It has been easy to be distracted as witnesses have paraded through Lord Justice Leveson's inquiry. Hugh Grant denied that anything had happened when he rode in the back of the car with a 21-year-old woman in Germany. Max Mosley raised questions about Paul Dacre's sex life, in a bizarre exchange about personal carnal morality. And Elle Macpherson's adviser told us she was ordered to go to rehab so she could keep her job. But then, nothing was ever going to be normal when victims of press intrusion came to turn the tables in court 73. Yet, for those who have sat through it all, there are clear patterns emerging. There are repeated targets of criticism. JK Rowling picked out the newspaper industry's supposed regulator, describing it, damningly, as \"toothless\". She had discovered that a Press Complaints Commission (PCC) judgment \u2013 aimed at protecting her children's privacy after a photograph of her daughter in a swimsuit appeared in OK! in 2001 \u2013 seemed to have little or no effect on the paparazzi that regularly swarmed around her. Gerry McCann, who, with his wife, were traduced by the media, admitted that he had little idea what the PCC was, preferring, reluctantly, to go to law to get redress. The PCC, though, was already in the dock for its inadequate response to the phone-hacking crisis. But the Leveson inquiry is straying far wider than that. A new set of villains have emerged: the photographers who at one time or another have besieged almost everybody else giving evidence. Sienna Miller thought about moving to Paris to get away from the mob that followed her around. Sheryl Gascoigne had to crawl on her \"hands and knees\" around her new home in Gleneagles to avoid the snappers because she hadn't yet bought any curtains. Grant complained he had to seek an injunction to get the paparazzi away from Ting Lan Hong's home this year because a complaint to the PCC had failed to stop them lying in wait for the mother of his newborn child. And in a neat little twist, the photographers showed how little they cared by chasing Rowling's car as it left the precincts of the high court. Some celebrities wanted to protect their privacy; more, though, cared about accuracy. It was Leveson who asked Gascoigne, who appeared on I'm a Celebrity, wrote a biography, and whose wedding pictures were sold to Hello!, which mattered to her more. On privacy, she admitted she had put herself in the public eye \u2013 \"asking for it\" were her words \u2013 but she didn't care for all the inaccurate information circulating about her. Rowling brought up a piece written by Carole Malone in the Sunday Mirror years ago that wrongly suggested her husband had quit his job as an anaesthetist when he hadn't. Mistakes, of course, are a staple of journalism, as any honest reporter will admit. But what really upsets subjects is the failure to correct promptly and with a similar prominence. Grant remembered a long battle with the Mirror in 1996, after news that he had visited Charing Cross hospital had leaked to the paper; a battle only resolved with an apology \"deep in the paper\". The parents of the murdered 16-year-old girl Diane Watson recalled vividly their battles to be heard by the Glasgow Herald and Marie Claire after both titles published items that contained inaccuracies about the circumstances surrounding her death. And as Rowling reminded us, once an intrusive picture is published it can \"spread around the world like a virus\". That, on its own, is hardly an easy problem for Leveson to tackle: but it is only a small part of the prosecution case that has built up, public figure by public figure, over this remarkable week.",
  "title": "Leveson inquiry unveils new set of villains",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Photographers, who it seems at one time or another besieged almost everybody giving evidence, come under fierce criticism",
  "id": "media/2011/nov/24/leveson-inquiry-villains-photographers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}