{
  "content": "Emily Bell wonders why more MPs aren't on Facebook. The simple answer is that the argument over whether it is worthwhile has yet to be won. To be clear, no MP sets up a Facebook account with the sole intention of gathering casework from it. If constituents have a problem they want to talk to me about, they have the choice of calling my office, emailing me, faxing me or writing to me. Not many, I suspect, would rather poke me. MPs do set up a Facebook account to create a dialogue, but generally a dialogue geared towards garnering electoral support. Whether you are on it or not, you have to accept that the internet is as much a part of the public sphere as TV or a town centre. For an MP, appearing online should be no different to going out on your local high street on a Saturday morning. Both allow you to put your message across without the editorial skew of print or TV. Both involve putting yourself where people are and where people can see you. Some people will hurl abuse at you, and some people will come up, have a chat, or even \u2013 if you're very lucky \u2013 tell you you're doing a good job. The majority will walk past, but many will remember that they have seen you. Both online or face to face there is no real way of knowing whether the people you are talking to are your constituents, or even if they are using their own name. But for me, as an MP with a majority of only 79, even if I only manage to reach a handful of people, the exercise has been a success. For this reason, I have been on Facebook for a while now, as well as Second Life, MySpace, LinkedIn, Bebo, Flickr and Twitter. I also use YouTube to create my own video website and email my weekly blog out to my mailing list. I also try to update my website every day with snippets of information on what I am doing in Westminster, as well as my responses to the various postcard and email campaigns that constituents send in. I do all this because I want to keep my constituents informed, and I want them to be able to keep me informed, and, most importantly, because I want to continue to represent them in the next parliament. My website receives around 15,000 hits a week and I get dozens of responses to my blog and other articles I post, which I make sure I respond to. The dialogue with constituents is there, so I could easily argue that my web strategy is a success in terms of engagement. What I don't know yet is whether this engagement will translate to electoral success. Despite promising signs, online campaigning remains untested in the UK. Investing time and money in setting up websites with all the bells and whistles is seen as a gamble. Many will point to the success of Barack Obama's campaign as a sign that the gamble can pay off. However, Blue State Digital, the company behind Obama's new media strategy, have been insistent that they were not responsible for his victory, reiterating that it was the message, not the medium, that mobilised the millions of Obama supporters to begin more traditional campaigning on doorsteps and at rallies. Indeed, the strategy Blue State Digital \u2013 currently working for the Hope Not Hate and the CWU's anti-privatisation campaigns \u2013 put in place for Ken Livingstone's mayoral campaign could not save London from Boris Johnson. Still, if your MP is not on Facebook, it may be that they are a glass-half-empty kind of MP, and see no evidence that new media is a useful channel of communication. They know that constituents can get in touch with them when they need to; they know that some constituents don't use Facebook; and they know an even larger number won't use the internet at all for political purposes, so they are unconvinced that the time and effort involved would pay electoral dividends. We, the ever-growing band of \"glass-half-full\" parliamentarians, hope that the internet is as useful as we think it is, but still do not dare to dream that our online efforts alone are enough to get us re-elected.",
  "title": "Derek Wyatt: Can Facebook get MPs re-elected?",
  "lead": "Derek Wyatt: I don't know whether social networking will get me re-elected, but if I can engage with constituents everyone benefits",
  "tags": [
    "technology/politics",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "politics/houseofcommons",
    "technology/e-government",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/youtube",
    "technology/myspace",
    "technology/twitter",
    "politics/politics",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/mar/03/politics-social-networking-facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}