{
  "content": "We thought we'd reached peak ice bucket earlier this week \u2013 but with former US presidents getting involved, it seems there's no end to this chilly challenge. In case you've been living under a rock, the ice bucket challenge does what it says on the tin. You fill a bucket with ice and water and dump it over your head. Nominate a few friends to do the same within a set timescale, share the video on your favoured social media platform and you've got a viral charity campaign on your hands. It all kicked off in the US by the family of Pete Frates, a baseball player who was diagnosed with ALS, or motor neurone disease as it's known in the UK. Buoyed by support from the ALS Association in the US and some well-known celebrities, the campaign has raised millions so far. In the UK, those taking part have been donating money to the Motor Neuron Disease Association and Macmillan Cancer Support. So far, the likes of Justin Timberlake Lady Gaga and Mark Zuckerberg have all taken on the ice bucket challenge. Now former President George Bush has got involved, as has Tom Cruise, Cheryl Fernandez-Versini (formerly known as Cole) and David Beckham. Even Anna Wintour got her trademark bob drenched in icy water by members of her family after her daughter Bee Shaffer nominated her earlier this week. Here are 10 more of the best... George Bush Anna Wintour Tom Cruise Mel B Chris Pratt Taylor Swift Simon Cowell Cheryl Fernandez-Versini David Beckham Gwyneth Paltrow Coleen Rooney ... and as a bonus one, here's one which didn't quite go according to plan. Coleen Rooney took the challenge after being nominated by former Manchester City and Chelsea player Shaun Wright-Phillips \u2013 except her husband Wayne managed to drop the bucket on her head.",
  "title": "10 more of the best celebrity takes on the ice bucket challenge",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "society/charities",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/instagram",
    "technology/facebook",
    "music/taylor-swift",
    "fashion/anna-wintour",
    "film/tomcruise",
    "media/simoncowell",
    "football/david-beckham",
    "film/gwynethpaltrow",
    "lifeandstyle/celebrity"
  ],
  "lead": "Have we reached peak ice bucket yet? Now George Bush, Anna Wintour and Cheryl Cole have taken the ALS ice bucket challenge",
  "id": "society/2014/aug/21/10-more-of-the-best-celebrity-takes-on-the-ice-bucket-challenge-als",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}