{
  "content": "The decision by the new home secretary, Theresa May, to agree to an adjournment of the judicial review into the extradition to the United States of computer hacker Gary McKinnon is to be warmly welcomed. The review, due to start next week, was possibly the last throw of the dice for McKinnon, who faces charges of hacking into the computer systems of the Pentagon and Nasa nearly 10 years ago. But the real test of whether the new government lives up to its claims of restoring civil rights eroded under the Labour government will come when May makes her decision on McKinnon's fate, which is likely to be some weeks away. She has it in her power to halt the extradition and allow McKinnon, who suffers from Asperger's syndrome, to stand trial here. He has already agreed to plead guilty and is likely to face a community sentence for what was essentially an embarrassment and an irritation for the US authorities but nothing more. So what will May decide? Maybe she should seek some advice from the new deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg. Scroll back to December last year and you will find Clegg, who has been admirable on the issue from the outset, leading a demonstration in London. \"I think it's morally wrong to send a vulnerable young man to trial and imprisonment in the United States when he could be tried here,\" Clegg says in December. \"Don't extradite Gary McKinnon to the United States \u2013 try him here.\" Beside him at the demo is another familiar figure, Chris Huhne, now a cabinet minister. Huhne carries a placard reading, \"Fair UK Trial for Gary McKinnon.\" Scroll back a little further, to July last year, and you will find another politician berating Labour MPs for failing to support McKinnon in his long battle and telling them that \"it should still mean something to be a British citizen with the full protection of the British parliament, rather than the British government trying to send you off to a foreign court.\" Whose was that firm voice? One David Cameron, now perhaps in an even stronger position to protect McKinnon. The last government blew many opportunities to save McKinnon from the unpredictable and vengeful embraces of the American criminal justice system. The then home secretary, Jacqui Smith, now no longer even in parliament, failed to take into account McKinnon's mental state and showed little interest in the arguments against extradition. Alan Johnson, her successor, let the process rumble on. So what now stands in the way of halting the extradition? Not much. It is technically possible that the US government might seek to take the case to a further judicial review. But the original request for McKinnon to be extradited was made seven years ago under a different and paranoid US administration. There is no appetite within the Obama government to prolong this charade, nor is there any public hue and cry in the States about McKinnon, apart from the predictable knee-jerk lynch-mobs who emerge from their darkened rooms to bay online for a hacker's blood. This is a litmus test for the government and a big one. If McKinnon is allowed to be extradited after all the admirable protestations made by Cameron, Clegg and many others now in government, their credibility as protectors of civil liberties will be roundly shattered. And that, as Nick Clegg has so clearly stated, would be morally wrong.",
  "title": "Gary McKinnon case is a litmus test for the new government | Duncan Campbell",
  "lead": "Duncan Campbell: In opposition, Cameron and Clegg showed strong support for the hacker's rights. Now is their chance to act",
  "tags": [
    "world/gary-mckinnon",
    "politics/liberal-conservative-coalition",
    "politics/theresamay",
    "politics/davidcameron",
    "politics/nickclegg",
    "law/extradition",
    "law/human-rights",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/computing",
    "law/law",
    "us-news/us-politics",
    "politics/politics",
    "world/world",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/libertycentral/2010/may/20/gary-mckinnon-extradition-adjournment",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}