{
  "content": "\"Fab, can't wait to travel home: the northbound London to Birmingham line is blocked due to a broken down freight train.\" \"On way to Aberdeen and what's this? Oh, another stagecoach bus has broken down.\" These are just two of the thousands of tweets and Facebook statuses sent every day by people commenting on Britain's transport systems: an outpour of sentiment, primarily negative though not exclusively so. Perhaps it makes the smartphone user feel a bit better for a moment, but what use is it? This is where sentiment analysis and sentiment mapping come in, a concept being explored by the Royal College of Art, startup Commonplace and the UK's technology and innovation centre, Transport Systems Catapult. Sentiment analysis originated in the automatic analysis of texts by computers in order to discover whether the text was broadly positive or negative. It built on a long history of trying to get machines to understand the content and tone of documents. More recently, it has been applied to social media, and it is big business. Why? Because the value of brands lies in the positive sentiment attached to them, and companies want to understandwhat impact their products, announcements \u2013 everything that is known publicly about the company \u2013 have on their brand reputation. This is why a company like Topsy, which specialises in sentiment analysis, was bought by Apple for more than $200m last year. This way of thinking about commercial, societal and technological problems interests the Transport Systems Catapult, created last year by the Technology Strategy Board (TSB). So far, the TSB has launched seven projects in areas such as cell therapy, offshore renewal energy and future cities and there are more to come. The aim is to apply the best research, whether academic or commercial, to key areas of potential economic growth, creating new products and services. Enlightened transport operators are now taking close notice of what their customers say on social media, and in some cases also analysing sentiment. Sentiment mapping adds location to sentiment analysis. By knowing the places that tweets or other sources of sentiment are uttered from, or the names of places they refer to, it is possible to build a map of the areas where anger is running high or where travellers are happier. Are transport providers now turning to sentiment mapping to improve their services? There are potential benefits both for businesses and for the travelling customer. For example, the company may already know where their vehicles are and which are failing to keep to schedule, but with this technology it can also get the traveller's perspective on the problem too. If the firm is sufficiently responsive \u2013 and that is a big if \u2013 it may be able to solve the problem more quickly, or even just provide better information to its customers as the problem is taking place. Perhaps more importantly, operators can map the pattern of problems and fixes over time. Instead of taking a blunderbuss approach to improving their service, perhaps at huge cost in terms of engineering, they can plan more intelligently and intervene more selectively in a knowledge-led approach to the problem. During last week's taxi protest in London, it was easy to see how sentiment was neutral or positive for tubes and trains, while buses, snarled up in the taxi-filled streets, saw rising levels of negative sentiment. One of the greatest ambitions for sentiment mapping is to break down the antagonism between transport providers and the public; to redefine that relationship as aspirational and constructive, and for mutual benefit. Perhaps a few years from now, travellers will be able to make their own contribution to improving transport services, identifying waste and promoting efficient, sustainable solutions. Commonplace are enabling communities to gain better control over planning in their local neighbourhoods. In future they, and companies like them, may enable us to co-design the transport systems we need. Mike Saunders is co-founder at Commonplace, a digital tool for neighbourhoods and property developers. Stephen Boyd Davis is research leader at the Royal College of Art and has been been involved in the creative use of digital technologies, most recently in locative media, for many years. The technology and innovation hub is funded by BT. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here. Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox",
  "title": "How social media can help improve and redesign transport systems",
  "lead": "A mapping system that aggregates social media posts about transport experiences might be the key to customer happiness",
  "tags": [
    "sustainable-business/sustainable-business",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/business",
    "environment/corporatesocialresponsibility",
    "media/social-media",
    "sustainable-business/innovation",
    "sustainable-business/transport"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "sustainable-business/social-media-redesign-transport-systems-cities",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}