{
  "content": "Curt Hopkins over at Morpheme Tales (and the Committee to Protect Bloggers) has completed a mini-survey on the use of Twitter by news organisations. He estimates about 72 news organisations are using Twitter (even if some accounts have been neglected) and managed to get responses from 21 of those - including myself, I should add. The findings: only 10% of feeds were set up more than six months ago, so this is a very young tool. Twitter itself is only 18 months old. Half the respondents said they were using Twitter to deliver news, which isn't much of a surprise. But there has to be more potential in using Twitter to report - sports results, for example? Another 20% said they used Twitter to build up a dialogue with their readers, 15% to drive traffic and 15% for leads. One third said they followed more than 50 Twitter feeds which I find hard to believe - it's all about being selective, otherwise you get tweet overload. The respondents weren't particularly adventurous when it came to twitter apps; over 40% said they didn't use any additional applications, so I guess they just hover around Twitter.com for much of the day, or live by SMS. Hardly the most scientific survey, but a toe in the water at least. I've become a total twitter addict; it multi-functions as a to-do list, an am-doing list, a social organiser, a research tool, a tip feeder, an advice network and a way of thinking out loud... in a good way. You just don't understand until you've tried it and, as someone very astutely observed last week, most people that have wondered what it is but only got as far as the home page, won't get it. That home page is really quite boring, unless you have a serious virtual voyeurism habit. On the up side, 55% of the editorial people surveyed by Hopkins said it is \"somewhat\" likely that Twitter and microblogging will become a daily part of news publishing. If you haven't already, maybe now is the time to start playing? Do you play with twitter at work, or at home? How do you use it? And is it useful? And what's the most imaginative use you've seen for micro-blogging, or Twittering? Technorati Tags: Twitter",
  "title": "Results of the Twitter news site survey",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/blogging",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Curt Hopkins over at Morpheme Tales (and the Committee to Protect Bloggers) has completed a mini-survey on the use of Twitter by news organisations.",
  "id": "media/pda/2007/oct/02/resultsofthetwittersurvey",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}