{
  "content": "Previously known to many voters only as the man who knifed his brother, Ed Miliband has the Daily Mail to thank for his transformation into the man who loved his dad. In itself, this may win Labour's leader a chance to be heard by some who previously closed their ears. The bigger question is whether a politician, who passed his youth in the service of the unpopular and ultimately disappointing Gordon Brown, can find anything new and distinctive to say. His detractors, including some of his own colleagues, have spent most of his leadership whispering a negative answer. After the last month, it is more difficult to dismiss Mr Miliband as a mix of empty and wonky ambition. Before conference season, with the economy finally picking up, the polls looked to be starting to run away from Labour, at the very stage in the electoral cycle where the party's hopes in 1980s and 90s had drained away. Mr Miliband faced a choice \u2013 to limit damage by sticking to general slogans, or to take a risk and say something that might be noticed. The energy bill freeze was pragmatic populism rather than anything more ideological, but taken together with moves to rebalance company tax towards larger firms, it signalled a break with the doctrine that holds that the only grown-up industrial policy is to flatter and bribe big business. That was enough to provoke an alarmist thumbs down from the Conservatives, Peter Mandelson and most of Fleet Street, but \u2013 as Alistair Darling's piece in yesterday's Guardian bore out \u2013 managerial Labour as well as left Labour were enthusiastic. More significantly, on first blush at least, so were the voters. After the polling revealed a two-to-one-margin in favour of state interference to freeze household bills, David Cameron hedged his bets by launching a conventional Conservative tirade against Red Ed's meddling dirigisme, while No 10 briefed round the edges that his government would soon be doing big things on living costs too. Nick Clegg had a reasonable conference too \u2013 shoring-up his authority, and sketching out the first draft of an election pitch inevitably rooted in the compromises of coalition. But if the worst thing is not being talked about, Mr Miliband has had the best conference season. A few weeks before, the Labour leader made another bold leap, which was to have far bigger consequences for the world. By refusing to back No 10 on Syria in the Commons, Mr Miliband directly ushered in a parliamentary defeat, but also indirectly reset politics in Washington and Paris, in a manner which eventually led to Syria's civil war being tackled by concerted UN diplomacy, as opposed to western air strikes. Rarely can any decision by an opposition politician in a small island have had such consequences. The fact that the choice came late in the day detracts nothing from these results, although scrappy prevarication did preclude an immediate political pay-off at home. But remember that Iraq did not do for Tony Blair's reputation overnight; rather it set off a slow rot. The agonies of Syria drag on, without western bombing, as they would have done with it. The significance of pulling a war-weary Britain back from another embroilment could, however, long be remembered; it wrests the \"peace party\" platform back from the Liberal Democrats for the first time in a decade. Even if scrappy, the decision was Mr Miliband's own \u2013 it is very hard to believe that his brother would have made the same call. Standing up to the Mail, like Murdoch before, has further strengthened Mr Miliband in terms of the character thing. He has shown a knack for picking the right targets at the right time. Still lacking a sketch of anything that could be called a new economic model, he has a big journey to make between taking shrewd pot shots and waging a strategic campaign. As the nights draw in, Mr Miliband can at least be satisfied that he is finally making progress in persuading his countrymen to lend him their ears.",
  "title": "Conference season: Miliband comes into focus | Editorial",
  "lead": " After the last month, it is more difficult to dismiss Mr Miliband as a mix of empty and wonky ambition",
  "tags": [
    "politics/edmiliband",
    "politics/labour",
    "politics/politics",
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/media",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "world/privacy",
    "politics/ralph-miliband"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/oct/04/conference-season-miliband-focus-editorial",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}