{
  "content": "Today we've launched the latest version of the Guardian's Facebook app. Just before Christmas we added video and picture galleries into the app, and today we've added a redesigned homepage and the ability to listen to audio and podcasts. The updated homepage places a bigger emphasis on the social reading experience than before, and showcases the new articles, videos and galleries that have received the most attention in Facebook over the last few hours. We think this gives a vibrant and different take on the content that we publish, highlighting the stories that have caught the eye of Facebook users. Of course the editorially chosen news headlines are still there, as well as a space for our latest comment pieces. Listening to audio takes advantage of Facebook's new feature of publishing 'custom actions' into their Open Graph. If you are a regular Facebook user, you can expect to see an increasing number of applications using this technology to alert you when your friends are reading, watching, listening and buying. We know from user testing, and your feedback in the comments on this site and elsewhere, that the Facebook application isn't for everyone. It is an entirely opt-in alternative way to read Guardian content on Facebook. When you are prompted to try the app, simply clicking cancel will take you through to the Guardian site as normal, and we'll set a cookie so that we try and avoid asking you again. You can also hide the app if your friends are using it and you'd rather not see updates from it. Over 5 million people have installed the app now, and over half of those are aged 24 and under. This has typically been an audience that news sites find difficult to reach, and we've been delighted that our app is allowing our journalism and expert comment to reach a new younger audience within Facebook. We'd welcome your feedback on the changes to the app in the comments below - whether you are viewing this post on the Guardian site, or within the application on Facebook.",
  "title": "An update to the Guardian's Facebook app",
  "lead": "Five million people have already installed the Guardian's Facebook app, and now we've added audio, video and photo galleries, as well as an updated homepage design",
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "help/insideguardian/2012/jan/20/guardian-facebook-app-update",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}