{
  "content": "I've become quite Twitter dependent in the past year, but am a little surprised they haven't been speedier to add new features, like photo-blogging. No matter - someone else has done it instead. Twitxr works in the same but allows a photo to be attached, so allows you to photoblog, and it also tags geographic information from your phone to use in the message. On the plus side, Twitxr is designed to be used with the iPhone but on the downside - it can't be officially used with the iPhone because the developer platform hasn't been released yet. So you'd have to 'jailbreak' your iPhone to use this, and I'm not prepared to do that. Mike Arrington on TechCrunch says he is prepared to go that far, but also points to a project by Dave Winer that can send your latest Flickr photos to Twitter. Twitter, I imagine, are concentrating on strengthening their core infrastructure while preparing to introduce photoblogging - the next logical development for the service. And they have the distinct advantage of an established community. It takes quite a while to build that manageable but useful community of contacts on Twitter, and it would be a hard slog to try and build that up in the same way on a rival service. Jaiku is arguably a better interface but without that critical mass of users, it just doesn't work. That said, Twitxr will automatically post to your Twitter and Facebook accounts as well. Full marks for the strapline: 'a picture is worth a thousand words'. Source: TechCrunch",
  "title": "Twitxr is Twitter with pictures",
  "lead": "I've become quite Twitter dependent in the past year, but am a little surprised they haven't been speedier to add new features, like photo-blogging. No matter - someone else has done it instead.",
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/pda/2008/feb/18/twitxristwitterwithpicture",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}