{
  "content": "During the first world war, fears that troops returning from the front could spark an epidemic of sexually transmitted diseases prompted the government to introduce a law to ensure they could receive confidential treatment. Eighty years later the Venereal Diseases Act of 1917 became the focus for a bitter - and ongoing - debate over patient confidentiality. Health officials, security experts, and civil liberties campaigners realised that the way information about patients was stored and distributed via the NHS's computer network could be breaking the 1917 act and a raft of other laws. Ross Anderson, a reader in security engineering at Cambridge University was one of the first to flag up the security issues which rapid developments in IT technology were raising. In the mid-1990s he claimed the collection of some data could break long-established laws like the venereal diseases act, which was drafted carefully to make sure the treatment servicemen needed was kept private. The debate gathered pace. Specialists in genito-urinary medicine, HIV and Aids pointed out that if patients feared confidentiality was being breached it could have a serious impact on the control and prevention of sexually transmitted diseases. Some suggested it was already too late. One expert pointed out that data on the HIV status of in-patients was already included on the \"contract data sets\" - detailed records of a patient's treatment together with name, sex, date of birth, address and postcode. This system has since been reformed but does not satisfy all. The British Medical Association tried to put pressure on the government to explain how under the developing internal market details about patients were collected. It expressed particular concerns about the \"hospital episodes statistics database\" (HESD) - which records details of a patient's treatment in hospital - and the NHS-wide clearing service (NWCS), which facilitates the flow of information between trusts, health authorities, primary care trusts and the department of health. Grant Kelly, chairman of the BMA's information technology committee, said the BMA had still not received satisfactory information about which details are held on the HESD and the NWCS. The chief medical officer responded by forming a committee led by Dame Fiona Caldicott. In 1997 the Caldicott committee concluded more information which identified patients was flowing through the system than was necessary. Recommendations were made, including the appointment of senior professionals responsible for safeguarding the confidentiality of patient information. Some believe such developments have helped. Others - like Dr Kelly - describe them as little more than \"sticking plasters\". But the new powers enshrined in the Health and Social Care Act 2001 have again raised suspicions that the government wants to know much more about the health of individuals than it really has the right to.",
  "title": "Medical check-up",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Steven Morris looks at the continuing furore over confidentiality in the NHS.",
  "id": "uk/2002/sep/07/privacy.stevenmorris",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}