{
  "content": "Ever felt that you were a bit too obsessed with Twitter? The good news is, it's not you: it's your brain. A new study conducted for the social network examined the mental activity of 114 volunteers while they tweeted on phones, tablets and laptops, using a technique called steady-state topography. Carried out by market research firm Neuro Insight, the study compared users' neural activity when they were using Twitter to a baseline measured during normal online activity. It found markedly higher responses than the norm in the three areas it looked, which correspond to emotional arousal, feelings of personal relevance, and memory. Emotional arousal is linked to sites in the back right half of the brain, and the study uses activity at the right parieto-temporal site to assess the intensity of emotions elicited by the service. For people actively using the platform, sending tweets or searching for other, those responses were 75% higher than the online norm; but even for those just passively reading the service, the response was 64% more intense. \"The way that messages are delivered drives a strong emotional response,\" says Heather Armstrong, Neuro Insight's chief executive. \"It's very short and sharp, it's very immediate, and it's appearing in your own context.\" The context also affects the feeling of personal relevance, something which is 51% above the baseline for typical online use. In this case, that is defined as activity in one part of the brain known as a Brodmann area, specifically the Brodmann area associated with personal relevance \u2013 things we relate strongly too. Armstrong says that Twitter scores quite so highly because \"People are seeing stuff in a context which is immensely personally relevant. It's their own timeline, that they've constructed and which represents what they're interested in. It's a hugely different impact, because context affects massively the way we respond.\" Both of those peaks combine to push Twitter above the norm in one of the areas of the brain responsible for memory encoding. That doesn't necessarily mean that Twitter usage will be stored away in memory, but that is more likely to be prepared by the brain, to keep in long-term memory if a reason to do so arises. \"Active Twitter use drives 56% greater memory encoding than the average website,\" the research says. Both personal relevance and emotional intensity contribute to that memory storage improvement, says Armstrong \"Physical interaction itself is very important. As you're interacting with it, it has a much stronger impact than just reading things on a screen.\" Even interacting with Twitter on a computer is significantly more likely to involve physical interaction than watching TV or passively surfing the web, and that could be enough to push it over the edge. But Niall Moore, a neuroscientist at UCL, casts doubt on how strongly conclusions can be drawn from the report, pointing out that \"this isn't a scientific study. This has not been peer-reviewed and their methods are not clearly explained \u2026 I'm pretty skeptical of the whole thing, and I think they are making really quite unrealistic claims.\" Of course, whether the findings are a positive or negative for Twitter is a different question. Advertisers particularly are likely to find the concept that Twitter usage drives long-term memory storage appealing, and it helps justify the company's practice in its advertising fees of charging per engagement: if active twitter use is provably better than passive at being encoded as a memory, it's worth splashing out for. And other users may find their own reasons to make the most of Twitter's effect on the brain. Already, a number of teachers use the service to communicate with their classes, and they now have research to back up their efforts. \"One of the things that we're doing is dissecting the information and figuring out how we can make it a useful format for different people who use Twitter,\" says a Twitter spokeswoman. \"Our news partnerships manager might look at it and focus on the sorts of lessons for news organisations to think about when they're tweeting. \"Across our business there will be different ways that we interpret that data, and think about how we can use it to help people understand how to be good at Twitter.\" But the flip side is that if you feel Twitter is a bit too engaging, you might just be right. \"It's not because it's Twitter, it's because you've created a little world for yourself,\" says Armstrong. \"It's a lot more relevant, and though it doesn't replace real life, it's a more effective way of communicating.\" \u2022 Jennifer Lawrence: 'I will never get Twitter. The internet has scorned me'",
  "title": "Study reveals how Twitter grabs your attention",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "science/neuroscience",
    "technology/technology",
    "science/science",
    "media/advertising",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Neuro Insight shows how Twitter excels at making users feel personal connections to the service. By Alex Hern",
  "id": "technology/2014/nov/14/study-reveals-how-twitter-grabs-your-attention",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}