{
  "content": "THE GUARDIAN \"The newspaper industry must accept that the people it writes about will increasingly seek to assert their rights to privacy. It is in the interest of journalists to take notice of these concerns. That means acknowledging the spirit of the Human Rights Act and a preparedness to introduce some pretty wide ranging reforms of the PCC. If the PCC is not seen to be open, independent, consistent and effective there is little doubt that the courts will intervene - thus achieving the very result which the press rightly seeks to avoid.\" THE INDEPENDENT \"The PCC is good at conciliation and mediation; it is not a very effective vehicle for justice. To become so, the PCC must have real sanctions at its disposal, including the power to impose heavy fines... As this newspaper has consistently argued, (often to the displeasure of tabloid colleagues), after the Human Rights Act, newspapers have no alternative: they must put their house in order, or the courts will.\" DAILY MAIL \"Adding a privacy law would certainly provide lawyers with handsome fees from those that could afford them - but would it help ordinary citizens who can't pay the bloated cost of lengthy litigation? Moreover, there is a danger it would reduce the British Press to the poodle status of newspapers in France, where there are strict privacy laws and political corruption is rampant.\" THE TIMES \"The apologies or corrections offered to all those who have been wronged could be more prominent and more embarrassing for newspapers. There is room for debate about the specific division between editors and lay members on the various committees of the PCC. As the PCC concedes, press standards have improved in recent years. To base new legislation on those few lapses that occur would be unwise. The best route forward for a free, vigorous press is one of strengthened self-regulation. The select committee, by contrast, favours a dangerous cul-de-sac.\" DAILY MIRROR \"The crimes of Jeffrey Archer and Jonathan Aitken, who writes on this page, and the misdeeds of David Mellor and Neil Hamilton, would never have been exposed if there had been a privacy law. If there was, ordinary people wouldn't benefit - it would be the well-connected wrongdoers who would. The latest attempt to introduce one will fail. But the fight to keep a privacy law off the statute book must never stop. The freedom of the press is too important to be lost to the underhand manoeuvres of politicians.\" THE SUN \"A privacy law would be a charter for the rich, the famous and the crooked - and a gravy train for lawyers. Wisely, the government has ruled out such a law. It would be a fundamental blow to press freedom, and that means to democracy itself.\"",
  "title": "Press round-up",
  "lead": "What today's papers said about  the culture select committee's call for a privacy law.",
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/jun/17/pressandpublishing.privacy1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}