{
  "content": "Mr and Mrs Douglas's nuptial photographs may well go down as the most expensive wedding pictures in history. They have so far cost more than two years of legal argument which, without even counting damages, will have swallowed the best part of \u00a33m. Whether all this time, effort and money was worthwhile must be open to question. On any ordinary understanding of yesterday's High Court judgment the Douglases won. But that did not stop London's Evening Standard splashing the story under the headline: \"Zeta-Jones loses her claim for privacy.\" There will be plenty more where that came from. It is hard to feel any great sympathy for a fabulously rich Hollywood couple who never sought to disguise the fact that they had sought to control - for money - the images of their fashionable New York wedding in December 2000 and were miffed that a rival magazine managed a spoiler. It would have stuck in the gullet if the judge, Mr Justice Lindsay, had used this case, of all cases, to create a privacy law in this country. The judge sensibly avoided this course, finding that the law of confidence was perfectly adequate to the task in hand. Cue sighs of relief from Wapping to Canary Wharf. But there are at least three nuggets buried in the judgment which should stop the press shrugging it off as a tiresome fuss about nothing. The first is that the judge did what the press asked courts to do: he considered the press complaints commission's code of practice. He found that Hello! magazine plainly broke it - on grounds of subterfuge, privacy and no arguable public interest. His reasoning was rather more rigorous than the PCC itself in the case of Anna Ford, and should cause Fleet Street pause for thought. Secondly, the judge observed that - following the recent Strasbourg case of Peck - parliament will be obliged to address the lack of remedies for breach of privacy. He also speculated that it was only a matter of time before further cases would crop up where the law of confidence offered no protection. The courts would then, he predicted, have to revisit the whole question of privacy laws. Finally, he ruled that the journalistic exemptions to the Data Protection Act were dependent on newspapers making a convincing public interest argument - missing in this case. Small scratchings for \u00a33m, but no cause for editorial champagne, either.",
  "title": "Leader: Price of fame",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Costliest wedding snaps ever",
  "id": "media/2003/apr/12/privacy.guardianleaders",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}