{
  "content": "David and Victoria Beckham yesterday failed in a high court attempt to stop their former nanny from repeating the allegations she made last weekend about the state of their marriage in other newspapers and on television. But Abbie Gibson, the 27-year-old at the centre of the case, has promised not to make any new claims relating to her two-year period working as a nanny for the England football captain and his pop star wife. As part of the agreement, she also agreed to freeze the money she had received from the News of the World in return for her story until the Beckhams' case for breach of confidence is heard later this year. The court heard that Ms Gibson and her publicist, Max Clifford, received \u00a3125,000 for the story. Having failed to stop the publication of the revelations last Saturday night, lawyers acting for the Beckhams returned to court yesterday after failing to reach an interim deal with Ms Gibson while they proceeded with legal action against her and the News of the World. Neither the Beckhams, who were at home in Madrid, nor Ms Gibson, holidaying in Spain, were in court to hear the complex legal tussle between their respective legal teams. Hugh Tomlinson QC, acting for the Beckhams, said Ms Gibson had signed four confidentiality agreements. \"It would be absurd, and it would defeat the object of the contract, if the employee's obligation of confidence falls away at the moment when the employee clears their desk,\" he said. \"She is the person who signed the agreement and was their confidante and intimate for two years. It is uniquely hurtful and distressing to have the person who until the end of March this year was sitting around the breakfast table with them and their children discussing their daily lives repeat that information.\" Mr Justice Eady ruled that Ms Gibson should not be barred from repeating information already in the public domain following Sunday's story. That leaves her free to appear again in newspapers and on the television to defend her decision to speak out. \"It is not necessarily the case that because personal information is already in the public domain that it is beyond the laws of privacy. Unfortunately, publication of the material has taken place on such a wide scale that it would be futile to try and prevent publication of these matters,\" said Mr Justice Eady. Mr Tomlinson argued that the case was about \"public prurience\" and not the public interest in the true sense. He added that it was necessary in a democratic society to prevent deliberate breaches of trust for financial gain and to discourage others from such immoral behaviour. Although she will not be able to make any fresh allegations, Ms Gibson's solicitor said she wanted to respond to attacks on her in the media and that it would be impossible to do so without referring to the original claims. \"From Abbie's point of view, she had already agreed not to say any more because she had already told her story. She agreed to the money because that was not her primary concern,\" said Niri Shan, a partner at Taylor Wessing, the law firm that is representing Ms Gibson. \"But she wanted to respond to the vicious attacks on her from the media and she wouldn't have been able to do so without referring to information already in the public domain.\" \"We published the story because the Beckhams have repeatedly lied publicly and indeed taken legal action against us because we exposed the truth behind Brand Beckham,\" added a spokeswoman for the News of the World. \"This issue could and should have been resolved outside the courts. Instead, yet again, the Beckhams' energetic PR and legal team have hunted headlines on behalf of their clients.\" Both legal teams were left claiming victory over the disputed points in the agreement. \"I succeeded in two, he succeeded in two,\" said Mr Tomlinson outside the court. The legal tussle will resume later this year when the Beckhams sue the News of the World and Ms Gibson.",
  "title": "Beckhams stop nanny revealing new claims",
  "lead": "David and Victoria Beckham yesterday failed in a high court attempt to stop their former nanny from repeating the allegations she made last weekend about the state of their marriage in other newspapers and on television. By Owen Gibson",
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "uk/uk",
    "fashion/victoria-beckham",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2005/apr/30/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}