{
  "content": "When a small team of officials from the Information Commissioner's Office visited a family home on the Hampshire coast in March 2003, they had little idea what they were to uncover. In four A4 notebooks \u2013 coloured red, blue, green and yellow \u2013 the private investigator Steve Whittamore, the well connected middleman who satisfied Fleet Street's thirst for private information about those in the public eye, had meticulously documented his work. Over six hours in Whittamore's New Milton house, the five-strong team of officials found that almost every newspaper \"except the Beano and Dandy\" had paid Whittamore for access to this lucrative network of private information. The investigator apparently enjoyed access to social security records via a civil servant at the Department for Work and Pensions; he could search the police national computer through a worker in Wandsworth police station; two men sold him vehicle registration numbers, and others could blag ex-directory telephone numbers linked to a range of targets, from celebrities to murder victims including Holly Wells, Sarah Payne and Milly Dowler. Whittamore had logged tens of thousands of requests from journalists for confidential data. No journalists were ever charged \u2013 although the files contained prima facie evidence of criminal offences on the part of the investigators \u2013 and the victims were never told they were targeted. The records became the starting point for the information commissioner's Operation Motorman investigation into the data trade between private investigators and the press. \"It was obvious by the volume and content of the documentation seized [that] Whittamore worked on a full-time basis for numerous newspaper groups and journalists obtaining a variety of information for them,\" said Alexander Owens, the lead investigator in the Motorman inquiry and who raided Whittamore's home office in March 2003, in his witness statement to the Leveson inquiry into press standards. Whittamore was arrested and subsequently pleaded guilty to obtaining and disclosing private information under the Data Protection Act. Unlawfully obtaining or accessing personal data is a criminal offence under section 55 of the 1998 act. It is punishable by a fine of up to \u00a35,000 in a magistrates court or an unlimited fine in a crown court. Breaches under section 55 are protected by a small number of exemptions, including the prevention and detection of crime and \u2013 crucially, in the case of journalists \u2013 if the offence can be justified in the public interest. Whittamore was given a two-year conditional discharge and later described his former trade as playing \"Oliver to the press's Fagin\". Two reports by the information commissioner \u2013 What Price Privacy? and What Price Privacy Now? \u2013 were published in 2006 and cited thousands of transactions between newspapers and Whittamore. However, the full scale of the sometimes-illicit trade in information by newspapers has never been fully laid bare. An analysis by ITV News published for the first time on Wednesday details 1,728 potentially illegal transactions between the Daily Mail and Whittamore \u2013 almost double the number reported in 2006. The Daily Mirror made 984 requests for potentially illegal data, including 19 criminal record checks, according to the analysis. The People made 1,016 potentially unlawful requests. The Information Commissioner's Office was told of the significance of its Motorman material in December 2003, in a 12-page legal opinion partially made public only in December last year. \"Having regard to the sustained and serious nature of the journalistic involvement in the overall picture, there can be little doubt that many, perhaps all, of the journalists involved have committed offences,\" said Bernard Thorogood, counsel for the ICO, in a 2003 legal opinion which was partially read out at the Leveson inquiry. \"The inference, overwhelming, it seems to me, is that several editors must have been well aware of what their staff were up to and therefore party to it ... the evidence of involvement in significant and often unpleasant offending is, in my opinion, clear enough in very many cases and it would be appropriate to caution journalists and their editors.\" Owens claimed in evidence to the Leveson inquiry that he was warned off prosecuting the press because they were \"too big\" to take on. This was later denied, but the information commissioner at the time, Richard Thomas, has said that his office did not pursue the press because journalists would have reacted like a \"barrel of monkeys\". Thomas told the Leveson inquiry on 9 December last year: \"Maybe this is with hindsight, but perhaps thank goodness we did not prosecute the journalists. The impact for the office would have been very, very demanding indeed. \"I don't know when this was or at what point this was, but perhaps around about 2007, I can recall a conversation along the lines of somebody saying 'Thank God we didn't take the journalists to court, they would have gone all the way to Strasbourg'.\"",
  "title": "Steve Whittamore's lucrative network of private information",
  "lead": "Private investigator was the middleman who slaked Fleet Street's thirst for information about those in the public eye",
  "tags": [
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/newspapers",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2012/mar/28/steve-whittamore-network-private-information",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}