{
  "content": "Thursday, 11am. I am walking through the office when a colleague says: \"So who is the lady you were walking along Pear Tree Court with last summer?\" I stop. Google Street View has been live for a few hours and it's on everybody's screens. Which makes a change from Facebook, I suppose. And there I am - obviously me, despite the pixellated face. I look relaxed, it's sunny and I'm walking beside a woman who is definitely not my wife. \"You don't look like you're rushing back to the office,\" the colleague notes. Having launched its latest whizz-bang product, Google spent the rest of last week clearing images off its site: someone vomiting, a bloke being arrested, a man emerging from a sex shop. But why would I complain? I was innocently coming back from lunch. Friday, 11am. Across Britain, people are gazing at colleagues' houses and finding themselves poisoned by envy. A friend from Google calls, he claims, for a gossip. Clearly, he really wanted to know if my colleague Henry Porter was going to lay into the company for invading our privacy. Henry does think it's disgraceful, but I disagreed. Stanley Kubrick, when researching Eyes Wide Shut, sent his nephew to London to photograph the whole of Commercial Road in the East End. Carrying a set of stepladders for miles, the nephew recreated the entire street frontage so Kubrick could study it from his Hertfordshire den, an act of beautiful, paranoid genius. Now every freak can cruise Britain's streets from their armchairs, snooping, studying, imagining unpleasant theories ... I recalled that day the Google car with its strange rooftop contraption passed, the pleasant lunch with my colleague. Someone suggests: \"The photograph looks as it's been taken by a private detective.\" Now I feel guilty. How long will it be before we hear of the first person getting properly busted? In the same way that the multitude of stars suggests there must be another planet harbouring life, Google's 22,369 miles of footage will surely include someone in an inappropriate clinch, an as-yet-hidden image that will leave a set of lives shattered? Meanwhile, I wonder if I look overweight. I can see where this is going to go. Google will morph with Facebook, BlackBerry and Twitter. That image will come alive and start mimicking my movements around town. I will meet the avatars of friends, my inanities appearing in speech bubbles of 140 characters or fewer. Saturday, 2pm. My boss wanders over. He's delighted. There's a picture of him standing outside his front door making a mobile call. \"At least I'm not sauntering along the street with a woman,\" he says. \"True,\" I reply. \"But it's a funny place to make a call. What didn't you want other people to hear?\" He looked perturbed. \"Just what were you up to?\" I ask. Someone will be caught out soon, but this won't make Google's achievement any less. Our bad behaviour is not its responsibility. The revealing image is not new. Think of all those employees who called in sick only to be spotted on telly at Wimbledon. Even before photography, life was never entirely private. Samuel Pepys was busted making love on a north London common by a passerby. But as I say, I was just coming back from lunch. Honest.",
  "title": "Ruaridh Nicoll on Google Street View",
  "lead": "Ruaridh Nicoll: Having launched its latest whizz-bang product, Google spent the rest of last week clearing images off its site",
  "tags": [
    "technology/google-street-view",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/mar/22/google-street-view",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}