{
  "content": "Popular social networking sites such as MySpace and Bebo are putting children at risk of online bullying and inadvertently exposing them to pornography and unsuitable advertising, the consumer affairs magazine Which? has warned. This comes after Computing Which? set up an account pretending to be a 14-year-old and found \"numerous examples\" of pornography, bullying and unsuitable advertising on the site, which allows users to create their own web pages, chat to friends and share photographs. The adult researcher who set up a MySpace account as a teenager was able to do so without proving age or identity. The sites claim to monitor uploaded images, but researchers came across pornographic photographs on both \"within minutes\". MySpace removed one image within a couple of hours of it being reported but two pornographic pictures remained online at Bebo nearly a day later, according to the consumer affairs magazine. In one instance of bullying, a teenage boy's web page asked his friends to vote on whether a girl they knew had Aids. \"Networking sites such as MySpace.com and Bebo.com need to do more to protect their millions of trusting members,\" said the magazine's editor, Jessica Ross. \"Children are spending hours every week on networking sites, building up their profiles and chatting with friends. However, what might seem like innocent fun has a darker, more sinister side. \"Teenage users need to be aware that there is no way of knowing who is behind the face of a 'friend'.\" Michael Birch, Bebo's chief executive, told Computing Which? that cyber bullying occurred in only a small minority of cases. Bebo aimed to remove offensive images within 24 hours of their being reported and was introducing technology to scan photos proactively. In a statement, Bebo said: \"Sadly, children face risks in everyday life, whether playing in their school grounds or on the internet. We are very conscious of this and are working hard to ensure our site is not abused. With that in mind, we are introducing an anti-bullying initiative today. \"Users can now opt to pre-screen comments and images that others attempt to post to their Bebo homepage. In addition, users can choose to block specific users from further interaction.\" A MySpace spokesman said the site \"takes online safety extremely seriously\" and had systems in place to protect those under the age of 18 and remove pornographic images. Both MySpace and Bebo employ security and child safety officers, who trawl sites for illegal or inappropriate content. Computing Which? said parents should ensure children never give details online which could reveal their identity. It also advised that only trusted friends be allowed to view a user's profile, and that users never lie about their age.",
  "title": "Porn and bullying common on MySpace and Bebo, says Which?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/myspace",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/web20",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/bebo",
    "culture/pornography",
    "culture/culture",
    "society/bullying"
  ],
  "lead": "Popular social networking sites such as MySpace and Bebo are putting children at risk of online bullying and inadvertently exposing them to pornography and unsuitable advertising, the consumer affairs magazine Which? has warned.",
  "id": "technology/2006/sep/14/news.uknews",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}