{
  "content": "The passing of the same-sex marriage bill and the first legal same-sex marriages were landmark events in the UK. It was a move which, despite some opposition from religious groups, was hailed by politicians from all the major parties. The Virgin Holidays brand is known for its forward thinking and willingness to stand for something. It has been a longstanding sponsor of the Attitude awards and believes strongly in travel for all so it made perfect sense that Virgin Holidays should be the first travel brand to openly support the legalisation of same-sex couples in the UK. Virgin Holidays, LIDA and M&amp;C Saatchi worked quickly to create an ad which would celebrate the news if a yes decision was made. No contingency was made for a no decision. Due mostly to our confidence that we were about to witness a positive historical moment. Originally intending the ad to feature in press first thing the next morning, we shared the ad with our client who then went to investigate budget and media opportunities. In that time we saw how the conversation was building through social channels. We re-evaluated and agreed that it would create a greater impact to share on social immediately. So a little after 7:30pm on 5th February 2013 we shared our celebration of the passing of the equal marriage bill. The response was fantastic. Aside from the odd homophobic comment, the audiences on Twitter and Facebook rejoiced in a brands' willingness to openly support the decision. What followed was an almost two year campaign highlighting Virgin Holidays' support of equal marriage. When the time came for the first legal marriages to take place in England, we were more prepared to join the conversation and the celebrations. Teaming up with Attitude magazine, on their 20th birthday, to mark the historical occasion with a special edition book, we posted about the first legal marriages throughout the day and launched a competition for one lucky same-sex couple to win the honeymoon of their dreams with Virgin Holidays and HIP Hotels. We encouraged the audience to nominate a gay couple who would be getting married this year, making the campaign relevant to an audience beyond just the gay community. The winners were Dino and Matt, nominated by one of their friends, who told us exactly why they should be our Mr &amp; Mr. Together for more than a decade and with lots of examples of how they had supported loved ones in times of need, often at considerable personal expense, they were the perfect example of a couple who deserved a little extra on their wedding day. After announcing the winners, we continued to engage with the couple and couldn't quite believe it when they invited Virgin Holidays along to their special day. An offer, they of course couldn't refuse. We set about brainstorming what we could do on the day to add a bit of Virgin magic. There was only one clear answer: a personal message from Richard Branson. Working with Branson's management team we arranged for him to send a personal telegram which was presented to the grooms after the big \"I do\". Working on this campaign has taught us some key things: 1. Be on the lookout for opportunities to engage in topical conversations which align to your brand positioning. Stay true to what the brand stands for and you will much more credibility versus those who simply jump on the latest trending topic. 2. It's much easier to do real-time marketing if you plan for it. Our first post was completely reactive but when it was time to engage again we were much better prepared. 3. Continue the conversation. We could have just posted our celebration about the yes vote and been done with it. By re-joining the conversation when it was relevant and engaging with the community, we were invited to a wedding and have gained a heap of additional content we had not initially planned for. Now that Dino and Matt are back from their honeymoon, where they've been tweeting at every opportunity from their twitter account: @DMVirginswAtt, we can't wait to read the first Virgin Holidays same-sex honeymoon reviews. Adam Reader is a social media strategist at LIDA To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \"Advertisement feature\". Find out more here.",
  "title": "How we made the Virgin Holidays celebration of equal marriage",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/media",
    "media/virginmedia",
    "media/mediabusiness",
    "business/virgin-group",
    "business/business",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "As part of the travel company's real-time marketing campaign, there was no contingency plan for a no decision",
  "id": "media-network/media-network-blog/2014/sep/03/virgin-holidays-same-sex-marriage",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}