{
  "content": "One of the big advantages that Kevin Rudd has over Tony Abbott is undoubtedly his social media savvy. It means he can deliver information to the voters quickly and easily \u2013 he really caught Abbott on the hop when he tweeted that picture of his shaving cut, forcing the Coalition to cancel their own shaving-cut policy launch later that day. But the biggest plus of Rudd's online presence is the opportunity it gives us, the voters, to scrutinise him as a leader. We already know that, as a man who cannot shave properly, he is relatable. But now that an election has been called, it's time to dig deeper. What, for example, does this photo from Rudd's Instagram account (above) tell us? First of all, it tells us that he is a multi-tasker: he is able to write while simultaneously smiling at the camera. This is a valuable skill for a prime minister to have, as it will save a lot of time. Secondly, it tells us that he is well-hydrated. There are two water bottles on that desk \u2013 you are not going to catch prime minister Rudd low on fluids. Which incidentally is a very real risk with Abbott, given all that cycling. Also, one of the bottles is a high-end sparkling mineral water, and one seems to be a bog-standard Mt Franklin affair. This shows that Rudd has the refinement to appreciate the better things in life, but is also in touch with the common man and his hopes, desires and beverages. But it's not all good news. By Rudd's right hand we see a bowl containing what look like raw vegetables of some sort: carrots and possibly celery. This is a little disturbing, as it suggests that Rudd keeps a pet rabbit in his office. Can we trust him to keep his mind on affairs of state with such a distraction? I fear there may be times that he will be less concerned with the state of the economy than with cleaning up Cottontail's pellets. Also, you will note the photo frame on his desk. It is facing away from the camera. What is it a photo of? His family? His true form? Joseph Stalin? We have a right to know \u2013 do we want a prime minister who is so secretive, and probably communist? But you take the rough with the smooth. The one thing for certain is that through the magic of Instagram, we are now a better-informed electorate. The gauntlet has been thrown down to Abbott to get an Instagram account and be upfront with the Australian people: how many rabbits does he own?",
  "title": "Kevin Rudd's Instagram: is this the face of a winning candidate? | Ben Pobjie",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "australia-news/australian-politics",
    "australia-news/coalition",
    "australia-news/tony-abbott",
    "technology/instagram"
  ],
  "lead": "Ben Pobjie:  Thank god for Kevin Rudd's Instagram, the place for all Australians to learn about the Labor candidate by analysing selfies and other self-indulgent shots",
  "id": "commentisfree/2013/aug/05/kevin-rudd-instagram",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}