{
  "content": "\"What happened to the expert curator?\" Daniel Blight asked recently of our readers. And the answer came back loud and clear: they're still out there. In their droves. So what better way to prove it than by getting involved in Ask a Curator day, back on 18 September for another day of social and cultural exchange. This global Twitter-based event connects experts in venues large and small directly to gallery and museum fans across the world, inviting both parties to take to their handles and ask each other anything they want. The campaign began in 2010 when Jim Richardson from Sumo Design spotted that Twitter would be a good platform to bring curators together with their visitors (and future visitors). The #AskaCurator hashtag was quickly trending worldwide. \"The inspiration was really a frustration I guess,\" said Richardson. \"In the museum world you have a movement towards more open and engaging museums, which is often referred to as Museum 2.0, the idea that a museum can evolve and get better by interacting and involving the public.\" Ask a Curator is a way for the public to talk to curators and professionals in cultural venues to which they normally don't have access. It's open to everyone \u2013 museums, galleries, historic or cultural buildings, theatres \u2013 and participants can ask them anything they're curious about or want more information on. Ever wondered what the oldest object in a collection is? Or whether a particular painting or exhibit has a hidden meaning? Perhaps you want to learn more about a museum or gallery you never knew existed before finding it on Twitter \u2013 Ask a Curator day can help. It also demystifies the profession of curatorship that Blight's article discussed. Some of the most popular questions that reoccur annually are: what's it like to be a curator, how do you decide what to display, and what is the most unique object in your collection? How do I get involved? Museums and galleries: There's a simple form to fill out. Your venue information and contact details are then published on the website for all to see. On the day itself, curators can schedule the time they are going to be online or dip in and out, answering questions as they come in. It's a good idea to let your own followers know that you're taking part. Some curators will write a blog or tweet that they're getting involved \u2013 others will add a link to their venue's website. The general public: All you need to do is tweet something on the day using the #AskaCurator hashtag. You can ask questions of a specific museum or gallery using that venue's Twitter handle, or ask general questions to the curator community. Technically, Ask a Curator is a 24-hour event, starting at midnight on 18 September wherever you are \u2013 Australia and New Zealand naturally kick things off a bit early! Personally, I like to keep an eye on the countries and museums taking part and find a few unique ones that I want to know more about. This isn't just for the general public; it's a great way for the sector to share learning and knowledge too. Curators can ask or answer questions of each other, and anyone is allowed to interrupt \u2013 this is Twitter after all. Why should I take part? Those museums and art galleries who joined in 2012 will testify to the platform and exposure it gave them. This was equally true for large and smaller venues. So far more than 300 museums in 28 countries have signed up for 2013 and the list continues to grow every day. The most important aspect for me is knocking down those barriers that make curators seem inaccessible, which we know they aren't. Anyone with a Twitter account can ask the questions they might be nervous about asking in other situations \u2013 this in turn gives curators a chance to find out what the general public are most interested in knowing and learning. It's a win-win for everyone involved, and a free for all in every sense. Mar Dixon is a social media and audience development consultant in the cultural and creative fields \u2013 follow her on Twitter @MarDixon Follow Ask a Curator day by using the #AskaCurator hashtag, or by following the event on Twitter @AskACurator This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up free to become a member of the Culture Professionals Network.",
  "title": "What would you ask a museum curator? Twitter can help",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "culture-professionals-network/culture-professionals-network",
    "culture-professionals-network/audiences",
    "culture-professionals-network/digital",
    "culture-professionals-network/communications",
    "culture/museums",
    "culture/heritage",
    "culture/culture",
    "artanddesign/art",
    "artanddesign/artanddesign",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "The #AskaCurator day aims to blitz the barriers that can make curators seem inaccessible to the public and wider sector",
  "id": "culture-professionals-network/culture-professionals-blog/2013/sep/05/ask-a-curator-twitter-museums",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}