{
  "content": "I've always been aware that my husband works in a pretty dangerous environment, but to be honest there haven't been many occasions during his prison service career when I've had to think too hard about the scary side of his job. There was the time we walked into a pub and were confronted by an angry ex-con demanding to know why he couldn't even drink in his local without an \"effing screw\" turning up of course, and then there was the time he was called away from home to help deal with the riot at Strangeways and wasn't able to contact me for days even to let me know he was okay; but apart from these and maybe a handful of other slightly less terrifying reminders of the risky nature of his work, I've never really had much cause to worry. Well, not until now. Last weekend we learned that EDS, the private computing firm that handles IT for the prison service, has managed to mislay a computer hard drive containing personal data about some 5,000 Ministry of Justice personnel. Obviously no one can tell us yet exactly who or what was on the drive, so while some quarters of the media have been busily hypothesising that people's bank details and National Insurance numbers have vanished into a black hole at the company's headquarters in Telford, others have been gleefully speculating that the drive held more personal information, like staff addresses for instance. The implications of the second scenario are clear, and in the absence of any firm reassurance from Jack Straw that that's not what's happened, all I can do is hope that the disc drive isn't now lying around somewhere waiting for a violent ex-offender with a grudge to stumble upon it. When Revenue and Customs lost everyone's child benefit data last November I wasn't too concerned. Yes, my information would have been on one of the missing discs, and if the discs had fallen into the wrong hands someone could probably have cleaned out my bank account: but at the end of the day a financial loss can be reimbursed. It would have been inconvenient and annoying to have had to deal with something like that, but it wouldn't have been the end of the world: no one's life would have been in danger for example. This time around I don't know what to think. Well okay, yes I do: I'm just trying really really hard not to. The revelation that EDS lost the data as long ago as July 2007 and has only now fessed up to it at least provides me with some reassurance. After all, if the worst-case scenario is true I would have expected something to have happened by now. We haven't had any late-night visitors prowling around outside the house as far as I'm aware, and certainly no macabre warnings posted through the letterbox; but that doesn't stop my family, along with thousands of other prison service families, from worrying. As Colin Moses, the chair of the Prison Officer's Association has said: \"It is a breach that ... could ultimately cost the taxpayer millions and millions of pounds, because, if the information lost is personal and sensitive, it may well mean staff having to move prisons, move homes and relocate their families.\" We weren't planning on moving house any time soon, but if it turns out that our address was on that disc drive then we won't hesitate to do so: and as Moses rightly pointed out, it will be the taxpayer footing the bill, not us. But whatever was on the missing disc, one thing's clear from this fiasco: no one's confidential details are safe in this government's inept hands. If they can't even look after their own employees' records, then how on earth are they going to manage once they're responsible for everyone's personal data? If they can't keep the addresses of prison service staff away from prying eyes, then what hope is there of anyone's confidential information being stored securely? ID cards anyone? How about a national DNA database? No, I didn't think so. This is just the latest in a succession of IT cock-ups that together put paid to the lie that keeping tabs on everyone through a national database is not only in all our interests but also necessary for our own protection: hundreds of official laptops have either been stolen or left on trains, discs have seemingly vanished as if by magic while in transit from one government department to another, and local councils have misused the information they hold to spy on local people. What else needs to happen before the architects of this madness wake up and realise that the surveillance state they're dreaming about simply isn't going to work? That far from keeping us safe, all it does is expose us to even more risks and open up yet more opportunities for fraudsters and others to take advantage of. This big brother folly has to stop. This time it's prison service staff that have been put in needless danger, but if Brown and his acolytes push through with their plans, there's no telling who could be next.",
  "title": "Cath Elliott: Big Brother has lost a disc",
  "lead": "Cath Elliott: As the British government presses on towards a surveillance state it is failing to keep an eye on the data in its possession",
  "tags": [
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "society/prisons-and-probation",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "world/surveillance",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology",
    "politics/government-data"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2008/sep/13/security.civilliberties",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}