{
  "content": "Twitter has always had lots of fake accounts, including fake celebrities, but only now is it introducing a system to verify them. The site has just announced that: \"To prevent identity confusion, Twitter is experimenting (beta testing) with a 'Verified Account' feature. We're working to establish authenticity with people who deal with impersonation or identity confusion on a regular basis.\" The problem is that authenticating celebrities is hard work, and Twitter may not have the staff or, perhaps, the ambition to handle the thousands of celebrities already using the system. The announcement says: \"because of the cost and time required, we're only testing this feature with a small set of folks for the time being.\" It could, of course, introduce a system where people pay for verification. Twitter may have been prompted to act by a lawsuit launched by Tony La Russa, manager of the St Louis Cardinals baseball team, over the unauthorized use of his name. Some people have got away with pretending to be celebrities for a long time, with Twitter seeming to wait for complaints to roll in before it discontinues them. At the moment, a few users are tackling the problem on a community basis. The Valebrity web site, for example, has been approaching celebrity users of Twitter accounts and asking them to verify themselves by various means. One simple way to do this is by putting a Twitter link on their official site. One problem is the number of \"celebrities\" from Britney Spears and Oprah (verified on her own TV show) down to the thousands of members of various sports teams, rock bands, parliaments, TV and radio stations, and so on. All of them could have their reputations damaged by impersonation. Twitter does not seem to have woken up to the fact that the problem is going to get worse and that it has no hope of coping on its own. It would make much more sense for Twitter to work with Facebook and other sites that have the same problem and come up with a joint solution for verifying not just celebrities but everybody. Note: I've changed \"combine\" to \"work with\" in the last para, since it's been misunderstood. Update: I talked to Valebrity's Steven Livingstone-Perez who says he'd already asked Twitter if they were interested in working with Valebrity, but they didn't get back to him. \"For what they want to do, it's an awful lot of work. I think they've been forced into it, and I don't think they'll be able to cope,\" he says. Valebrity has already validated more than a thousand celebrities and reckons the site is becoming known: \"People are now coming to us before they go to Twitter.\"",
  "title": "Twitter fights fake celebs by adding verified accounts",
  "lead": "Following a lawsuit, Twitter is finally testing the idea of verified accounts, but it is still a very long way from finding a viable solution",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/blog/2009/jun/12/twitter-verified-celebrities",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}