{
  "content": "Ever wanted to send a burrito emoji? Of course, you have. We live in a world of Netflix and chill. Well now \u2013 you know where this is going, right? \u2013 users will soon be able to send burrito emoji and communicate via a unicorn or a flipped middle finger. Or they will when Apple's update to its mobile operating system, iOS 9.1, arrives later this autumn. A whole new batch of emoji was approved by the Unicode Consortium, the industry body which sets the standard cross-platform options, in June 2015 and 2014. But many of the newer designs have yet to be implemented, aside from emoji people of colour, fixing the, quite frankly, appalling fact that initially only white people were represented in human emoji. iOS 9.1, which has just been made available in beta, will allow iPhone users to share some of the designs from that latest Unicode Consortium update (version 8) as well as previous approved lists. New additions for iOS 9.1 include a robot, a bandaged face and a \"nerd\". There are now flag designs for territories including Christmas Island, Antarctica and Vatican City. Sports fans have also had their options widened, with the addition of badminton, cricket, field hockey and archery. Religions other than Christianity \u2013 which has always been represented by a church emoji \u2013 are now included, with a mosque and synagogue among new additions. The new emoji will not be available in the release of iOS 9 on 16 September, but are available in the beta version of iOS 9.1, which will be fully released to the public later in the year. Tech Insider refers to the middle-finger swearing emoji as \"hotly anticipated\", but the Guardian is more excited by the soon-to-be-available burrito, writing hand, and a popped bottle of champagne. It's unclear when users of other operating systems, including Android, will get their hands on the new emoji. But no-one will get to use a red-haired emoji anytime soon, which, once again, STILL DOES NOT EXIST.",
  "title": "Unicorn and middle finger emoji coming to iPhone \u2013 but still no redheads",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/emoji",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/ios",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "Apple's new mobile operating system iOS 9.1, released this month, will include new emoji including a burrito, table tennis and a swearing finger",
  "id": "technology/2015/sep/11/unicorn-middle-finger-emoji-iphone-apple",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}