{
  "content": "Is it possible to regain privacy? Can I demand that you erase my details from your records if you're still hanging on to them several years after I entered your competition to win that free trip on Concorde? If I, or my \"friends\", post photographs of me looking tired and emotional on Facebook do I have the right to get the images removed? And if a newspaper or broadcaster reported my conviction for dishonesty a decade or so ago, can I require it to wipe my slate clean by deleting all mention of my criminal record from its web archive? The answers to these questions are: sometimes; yes; coming soon, it seems, if the EU justice commissioner has her way; and, to borrow a phrase from Facebook, it's complicated. Dissenters can voice disagreement with that cursory analysis below the line. Mention the Data Protection Act 1998 (DPA) and the chances are you'll find yourself in conversation with someone who is stifling a yawn, but the legislation, which implemented a European Directive to introduce privacy rights into domestic law, has had a transformative effect on our lives. The good or bad news, depending on whether you're an individual or an organisation, is that the EU justice commissioner, Viviane Reding, has announced plans to modernise data protection laws to increase the burden on those handling personal information. Top of the list of reforms outlined in her speech last month is the \"right to be forgotten\". What this might cover is anyone's guess at this stage, but the justice commissioner has previously singled out Facebook for criticism for unilaterally changing its privacy settings last year, and she is particularly concerned that young people aren't aware that private information they reveal online may become \"irretrievably public\". She proposes \"privacy by default\", to outlaw the current practice of requiring users of social networking and other sites to opt for privacy, rather than giving them privacy as a matter of course. \"Privacy settings often require considerable operational effort in order to be put in place,\" she said. \"Such settings are not a reliable indication of consumers' consent.\" A \"privacy by default\" rule would require explicit consent for private information such as email addresses, retained for one reason, to be used for another, and would prevent the collection of irrelevant data through software applications. The justice commissioner also wants services aimed at EU users to be bound by the EU's data protection laws regardless of their location. All this is likely to be of interest to Google, which announced in March that it had agreed to biennial reviews of its privacy controls for the next twenty years. This after it was castigated by the US Federal Trade Commission for launching Buzz, its social media offering, using the private contact lists of Gmail users to build their \"friends network\". Among those who should keep a watchful eye on the right to be forgotten, when the legislative proposals are introduced this summer, are news organisations. If the right to be forgotten becomes law, web archives may come under attack from people bent on cleaning up their reputations including those who previously agreed to be photographed or interviewed for newspaper articles or television programmes. Any discussion about the right to be forgotten should also involve consideration of whether ex-offenders should be able to scratch the record. The Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974, which (except for the most serious offences) prohibits publication of a person's conviction after several years have passed, was enacted long before the digital revolution and legislators could not have had electronic archives in mind when they drafted it. The question of whether and how it applies to the online archives of news organisations, which include thousands upon thousands of reports of trials and convictions is, as I said, complicated.",
  "title": "Privacy online \u2013 it's complicated | Siobhain Butterworth",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/privacy",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/gmail",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/right-to-be-forgotten"
  ],
  "lead": "Siobhain Butterworth: The EU justice commissioner has announced plans to modernise data protection laws, including a 'right to be forgotten'",
  "id": "law/butterworth-and-bowcott-on-law/2011/apr/15/privacy-online-its-complicated-law",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}