{
  "content": "A few months ago, I was asked to give a talk about fun. The chief executive of a local council had read a column I had written about the culture of the NHS and wanted me to lecture senior managers on \"how to have fun in the workplace\". An image of David Brent dad-dancing around The Office flashed into my mind, but I dismissed it and said yes. Faced with a booked council chamber, questions about PowerPoint and the prospect of an hour that made a cervical smear feel like a treat, I dredged through memories of working life from the age of 15. There was the job in the health food shop, where the manager told me I should eat carrots for my spots. There was the bookshop where the staff bought me black stockings and suspenders. There was the office where I spent the whole of my first day trying to type one letter and had to hide the bin. And the fun? Where was the fun? In the shops, the publishing offices, the arts centre offices, the newspaper offices and the office procedures that sometimes seemed to have come straight from Kafka's castle, where on earth was the fun? The fun, it struck me, was largely in the pub. The fun, in other words, was in the people. The fun, I now know from a weekend report, was from something called \"social intelligence\". According to the report, published by King's College London in partnership with the National Citizen Service (NCS), social intelligence is \"the set of abilities and skills we use to understand social situations\". These are the skills you need to work out when it's your turn to buy a pint. These are the skills you need to work out how to please your boss. And these, according to the report, are the skills you are going to need to have any chance of getting a job. More than 200 employers were interviewed, and they nearly all said that social intelligence was now more important in new recruits than IQ or exam results. They said they were wasting an awful lot of time in interviewing people who seemed to have no social skills at all, and that if you didn't have any by the time you started applying for jobs it was probably too late. But where do you get it? Six out of 10 of the 12- to 17-year-olds polled for the report said they were lonely. One in 20 said they never spent time with friends outside school. Girls were lonelier than boys. A third of the young people polled said they hardly ever felt popular with their peers and 36% said it was \"difficult to make friends\". Nine out of 10 said they were nervous about mixing with people from different backgrounds. As George Osborne has discovered in the past few days, it does help to have some idea how other people live. If today's young people are locked in their bedrooms, gazing at their smartphones, this, at least according to the report, isn't actually making things worse. The young people who spent more time online said they had more fulfilling and stable friendships than the ones who spent less. This, says the report, could be because it helped them to practise their social skills before trying them out in \"real life\". Still, the big lesson is clear. Adolescents who want to get ahead at work need to spend a bit less time on their smartphones and get an awful lot better at studying the codes that come in flesh. They need to read the eyes, the frowns, the corners of a mouth. They need to read the set of a shoulder and a jaw. They need to know when a colleague needs a kind word or some quiet to get on with a deadline. They need to know that when the boss's face goes red, you can't just swipe left and move on. Not least because these are the things that robots still can't do. About half of jobs are at risk of automation, according to a series of terrifying reports, including one by the Oxford academics Carl Benedikt Frey and Michael Osborne on The Future of Employment. If you work in telemarketing, accounting, retail or as an estate agent, you'd better sit down when you read it. It's still not exactly clear what will be left when the robots come, but we do know that they are on their way. And that it isn't just the low-skilled workers who will see their jobs wiped out. In this forcibly brave new digital world, the shift will be away from employees to freelancers and contractors. It will, in other words, be away from security to a world where you have to bid for every tiny scrap of work. If you are good at it, you will be taken on for a project, and when that is over you will be dropped. It's zero hours and it's a stressful way to live. Ask a journalist who has lost their job. Ask me. We need to prepare our young people for a world some of us are only now beginning to face. We need to teach them to be strong and to cope with disappointment. We need to teach them how to cope when they work at home on their own, but also the social skills to win the work. Parents need to do this. Schools need to do this. And we as a society need to do this, by offering projects such as the NCS, which brings 15- to 17-year-olds from all backgrounds together in two- or three-week programmes, to make friends, have adventures and build skills for work and life. In the new world, work will certainly be an adventure. Adventures can, of course, be fun. But you need a bit of grit to cope with adventure. And it's much, much better if you learn this when you're young. \"If you want the rainbow,\" as David Brent once said, quoting Dolly Parton, \"you've got to put up with the rain.\"",
  "title": "Our teenagers need social skills, not social networks | Christina Patterson",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "society/youngpeople",
    "society/society",
    "money/work-and-careers",
    "money/money",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "education/employability",
    "education/education",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "The workplace is changing quickly and young people need real-life human interaction to succeed",
  "id": "commentisfree/2016/mar/22/teenagers-social-skills-not-social-networks-work-ncs",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}