{
  "content": "Facebook is about to add yet another new product to its revenue-generating machine, widely predicted to be unveiling a Groupon competitor at a press conference in California shortly. The new service is based around Facebook Deals confusingly dubbed 'Facebook Deals' as distinct from 'Facebook Places Deals' , which it launched in the UK in January and the US last November. That service let users check in to venues using the Places location tool to take advantage of special offers, though there has been little buzz about the service since launch. Photo by juhansonin on Flickr. Some rights reserved The new service, as predicted by Bloomberg last month, is likely to launch in San Francisco, San Diego, Dallas, Austin and Atlanta. Rather than based on check-ins, Deals will be more like a daily deals offer, and Bloomberg said Facebook planned to test the service during March. With reports of Facebook's advertising network estimated, by one account, to generate $4bn by the end of the year \u2013 and going someway to justify at least a fraction of that $50bn+ valuation \u2013 there's increased focus on revenues and tapping those 600 million (and more) users. The coverage given to the growth of Groupon, Living Social and the 40 other daily deals sites won't have escaped Facebook's notice, and neither will the heady valuations attached to those; Groupon was said to have valued its business at $25bn while reviewing a possible IPO. The daily deals space, meanwhile, has been predicted to reach $3.93bn by 2015, according to research by BIA/Kelsey. There's little incentive for Facebook to acquire a service in this space when it is sitting on the world's biggest single collection of consumer data, but it is thought Facebook will announce partnerships with smaller, local deals companies including ReachLocal, Tippr and Gilt City. Living Social's chief operating officer told us just this week that companies as large as Facebook and Google would question whether to enter a market as specialised as daily deals because of the resources involved \u2013 not least local sales staff on the ground to work with venues. But that's exactly what Facebook is planning to do. Rather than reading and binning a daily deals email from a service you've signed up to that keeps sending things that don't interest you, Facebook knows which deals you'd like before you do. The potential is vast. The challenge will be to compose the service in a way that rivals Groupon et al for simplicity \u2013 something Facebook has not been very good at. \u2022 Update: Facebook insists today's launch is a feature of Facebook Deals, rather than a new service, and is called Deals Updates. \"We will test a new feature for our Deals product that allows people to buy deals on Facebook and share them with their friends. Local businesses will be able to sign up to use this feature soon and people will be able to find Deals in the coming weeks.\"",
  "title": "Facebook prepares to launch its Groupon rival",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/groupon",
    "technology/daily-deals",
    "technology/efinance",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "After seeing how much money Groupon has made in just over two years, Facebook is after a piece of the daily deals action. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "media/pda/2011/apr/07/facebook-deals-groupon",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}