{
  "content": "With the EU referendum looming, there are plenty of questions about what effects Brexit could have on our day-to-day lives. The internet has spent the past couple of days worrying about the availability of Milky Way Magic Stars, the little star-shaped chocolates made by Mars. But, true to form when it comes to viral images on the internet, all is not as it seems. It all started when Ben, aka @Swarley_94, tweeted the following: The picture went viral on a number of platforms \u2013 one post from a separate person on Facebook had more than 8,000 shares. UniLad, who often aggregate viral posts, also picked up the picture on its various platforms. As a result, it had some people joking they were a bit worried about Milky Way stars if Brexit wins out on June 23. The thing is, that picture isn't actually of a packet of Milky Way Stars. It's a packet of Magic Stars-flavoured hot chocolate powder. When the Guardian bought its own packet of Magic Stars, purely for investigation purposes of course, we found it did not have the same EU warning at the bottom. Ben, who preferred to go by just his first name, told us he didn't expect the tweet to go nearly as far as it did. \"It's actually a bag of Magic Stars Hot Chocolate,\" Ben told the Guardian. \"A distinction I didn't bother to make clear because it was an off-hand tweet late at night whilst studying, and who'd even see the tweet? \"My tweets generally don't attract that much attention and I've never really been that fussed about it, but it was bizarre watching it unfold during the day and provided some amusement during revision.\" But have no fear: your Magic Stars are safe from the Brexit fallout. Some journalists have already been in touch with Mars and have been told it's not the case: Whether you'll be able to get Magic Stars-flavoured hot chocolate is another matter. We've contacted Mars to find out. So there you have it. No need to go stockpiling Magic Stars just yet.",
  "title": "Don't worry, you can still get Magic Stars if the UK leaves the EU",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "politics/eu-referendum",
    "politics/politics",
    "world/eu",
    "lifeandstyle/chocolate"
  ],
  "lead": "A jokey tweet has led thousands of people to think they won't be able to buy Milky Way Magic Stars if the UK leaves the EU \u2013 but that's not the case",
  "id": "uk-news/2016/may/31/dont-worry-you-can-still-get-magic-stars-if-the-uk-leaves-the-eu",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}