{
  "content": "If the English language is to be raped by the forces of political correctness, then I think those behind this outrage should give us a darn good explanation for why they are doing it. You may notice that I just used the verb \"to rape\" metaphorically, which is to say in a context other than a literal one pertaining to an actual serious sexual assault. Is Claire Perry, the Conservative MP for Devizes, going to have a go at me for uttering the R-word out of context, or is she going to engage her brain and read on? Perry has been locked in a ridiculous battle with the Labour party over comments made by the MP Austin Mitchell, in which he used the word \"rape\" to describe what he felt was happening to AstraZeneca \u2013 the pharmaceutical company that is the subject of a takeover bid by Pfizer. Mitchell intimated that the smaller, less powerful company was being \"raped\" by the stronger, more aggressive one. He tweeted that \"Cameron dare not stop Pfizer because he dare not offend the US in any way. Roll up rapists.\" Pretty standard use of a metaphor, if you ask me. But what do I know? I'm just a flowery-brained English literature graduate. Perry pompously announced that she had telephoned Mitchell and told him it was \"fine to have political debate about Pfizer-AstraZeneca but never acceptable to use rape as a corporate analogy\". Here endeth the lesson. Or not, as the case may be, because she then also contacted several of Mitchell's female colleagues via Twitter, urging them to condemn him. At the risk of offending Perry further: calm down, dear! As Mitchell pointed out, one of the definitions of rape in the Oxford English Dictionary is to plunder: \"People talk about the rape of the countryside and the rape of the rainforest.\" Quite so. The objection to Mitchell's use of the word is not even logical. It might have been a valid complaint if his metaphorical flourish had belittled the crime of rape by using the word to illustrate something small happening. But Mitchell used the concept to emphasise the gravity of a situation. He quite evidently did not \"trivialise\" rape. Perry's demand for an apology on the basis that the word rape should never be used as a metaphor \u2013 even if that usage upholds the concept of rape as an enormously bad thing \u2013 is absurd. But she may well get her way. Unfortunately, we seem to live in a climate where a culture of public apology demands that people make a show of regret for every faux pas, real or imagined, and regardless of whether the resulting hysteria is proved to be misplaced. The outragees are not concerned with whether Mitchell has really offended the entire country \u2013 as has been claimed by Nicky Morgan, the women's minister (patently wrong, since he hasn't offended me). And they are not concerned with whether Richard Scudamore, the Premier League chief executive, could possibly have intended to cause insult, en masse, with sexist comments in emails that were never meant to be made public. But if you are rumbled for uttering something deemed to be outrageous, there is an unwritten rule that you need to then say \"mea culpa\" in order to survive. In the novel A Thousand Pardons, by Jonathan Dee \u2013 a parable about the way we live now \u2013 a housewife becomes a crack PR agent simply by persuading every client on her books to say sorry for everything they are accused of, even when they want to fight to clear their name. Sorry, she discovers, is always the quickest way out. But what if saying sorry opens the way to an even greater wrong? If Perry has her way and Mitchell does apologise, hundreds of other words and phrases that describe negative things might also be deemed out of bounds unless being used literally. What would happen to the phrase \"I could murder a pint\", for example? We are clearly heading for a situation where we are not allowed to speak metaphorically at all, for fear we might create what Mitchell so eloquently calls a storm in a tea cup. Please, Ms Perry, do not feel a need to complain on behalf of those killed or injured in storms.",
  "title": "The AstraZeneca 'rape' furore is absurd. What's wrong with a strong metaphor? | Melissa Kite",
  "lead": "Melissa Kite: Austin Mitchell's use of the word 'rape' to describe a corporate takeover has led to misplaced outrage",
  "tags": [
    "business/astrazeneca",
    "technology/twitter",
    "business/business",
    "politics/politics",
    "politics/houseofcommons",
    "media/media",
    "society/society",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2014/may/16/astrazaneca-rape-furore-metaphor-outrage",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}