{
  "content": "The biggest change of the last years within the internet was caused with the advent of social media, so it is no wonder that more and more academic conferences are dealing with it. Under the subtitle \"Assessing the evolution, impact and potential of social media\", the 2009 Oxford Social Media Convention aims to take a look back at the evolution of blogs and other social media. Experts such as Dave Sifry, the chairman and founder of the blog search engine Technorati; Richard Allen, the European policy director of Facebook; and Matthew McGregor, the London director of the agency that worked with the Obama campaign, Blue State Digital, will discuss the key question: has the emergence of social media made a difference? The morning sessions take a more historical approach. The conference is looking back to how exactly we got where we are today, and is questioning the supposedly egalitarian and democratic potential of social media. However, it still takes into account the ways that social media makes a difference, in our working as well as our social lives. As the Iran election showed, breaking news can be heavily influenced by social media, and data-sharing in science is an important issue as well, so those receive two parallel sessions. Later in the day the conference will get political. Can blogs live up to \"cyber-utopian\" expectations? They introduce more transparency and changed the media landscape in the US, but if you take a closer look, it's mostly the old elite that's writing them successfully. Corporate blogs and political campaigns will be the day's final subject. Obama made good use of both. But is the internet bringing more people into politics, or is it just an especially efficient way to preach to the converted? And how much effect will it have on the structure of traditional political parties? Updates on some of these issues are coming on the PDA blog. Stay tuned.",
  "title": "The difference that social media makes",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "The 2009 Oxford Social Media Convention is assessing the evolution, impact and potential of social media",
  "id": "media/pda/2009/sep/18/oxford-social-media-convention-2009",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}