{
  "content": "Twitter has rejected as \"absurd\" the notion it suppressed or interfered with the accounts of student protesters or co-operated with the police in monitoring tweets about demonstrations. Much of the organising of the marches and occupations at universities and colleges over recent weeks has been organised through social networking sites, particularly Twitter and Facebook, something which has hampered police efforts to keep abreast of protesters' plans. In recent days several Twitter users involved in the demonstrations against education cuts and higher tuition fees, notably a group of students occupying part of University College London (UCL), have complained that their Twitter accounts were unavailable. The UCL students were forced to change to a new @UCLocc after UCLOccupation failed to work for several hours. Separately, there have been allegations \u2013 mainly on Twitter \u2013 that the failure of the #demo2010 Twitter tag to show at the top of popular \"trending\" lists indicated it had been suppressed. Matt Graves, a spokesman for Twitter, said there was \"absolutely no truth\" in any of the claims and said the site had not been approached by police or any other official groups. \"Twitter has not been contacted by UK authorities or by any UK police force regarding the use of Twitter by student protesters,\" he said. \"Any suggestion that we have suspended or interfered with the Twitter accounts of protest groups or with hash-tags related to the protests is absurd. \"Twitter is committed to fostering the open exchange of information because we passionately believe it can have a positive global impact. When people can exchange information freely and publicly they are able to accomplish great things. He added: \"We have seen people use Twitter to help each other during fuel shortages, track the spread of wildfires, check in during earthquakes, organise major charitable events, spread urgent news efficiently around the world, and \u2013 quite famously \u2013 to organise political protests around the world. We have not, and will not, do anything to stand in the way of people using Twitter for the open exchange of information. Period.\" Twitter has proved invaluable for student activists to organise groups of protesters, particularly to stay mobile and avoid being penned in by police. During yesterday's marches the biggest demonstration, in London, split repeatedly to avoid police kettling tactics. Although spontaneous, the tactic was also organised on Twitter. Other large demonstrations took place in Brighton, Birmingham, Bristol, Manchester, Newcastle and Oxford. In London, 153 people were arrested. Of those, 136 were detained after police kettled and then arrested activists refusing to leave Trafalgar Square at nightfall. The use of kettling has proved controversial, and Jenny Jones, a Green party member of the Metropolitan police authority, has requested evidence from protesters about police methods during recent protests. The Education Activist Network said today another day of action would be held on 11 December, when parents and teachers would be urged to join students opposed to the government's plans for a sharp increase in tuition fees. A spokesman, Mark Bergfeld, paid tribute to students who took part in the demonstrations yesterday. He condemned police for making so many arrests, describing the protests as \"absolutely brilliant\". He said: \"We are building on recent protests and it is clear the movement is growing. More and more young people are displaying their anger at the government's plans and we now want to get parents and teachers involved.\" A large protest is being planned for the day MPs vote on tuition fees, expected before the end of the month.",
  "title": "Twitter 'did not suppress student protesters' accounts'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "education/students",
    "education/tuition-fees",
    "world/protest",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "education/education",
    "education/higher-education",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "",
  "id": "technology/2010/dec/01/twitter-student-protesters-accounts",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}