{
  "content": "Contrary to much-tweeted opinion, the Twitterstorm that has supposedly blown the cover of several superinjunctions is not really a defeat for the high court. The judges are not, as I write, sitting, licking their legal wounds and plotting some new \"mega-injunction\" with which they will smite the Twitterati and silence them for ever. The judges of the high court are nothing if not pragmatic in the way they grant remedies. You only really get one if it will work. If it plainly is not working, they will usually lift it. There is also a mistaken perception that social media has exposed the fragility of the injunction and forever banished any idea of a privacy law. This sort of thing has been going on for decades. Back in the 1980s Peter Wright, formerly of MI5, penned his memoirs from retirement in Tasmania revealing all manner of rum goings-on including Soviet moles and a CIA-MI5 plot against Harold Wilson's Labour government. Injunctions were obtained in England, but by the time the case was fought the book was circulating extensively elsewhere in the world. What has developed in recent years is judges' willingness to regard fleeting relationships as giving rise to a duty of confidentiality. There was even a suggestion, later overturned on appeal, that the \"relationship\" between a footballer and lapdancer gave rise to such a duty. Superinjunctions are granted where the mere knowledge that an injunction exists effectively gives the game away and renders the injunction ineffective. Those bound by injunctions, super or otherwise, are always able to argue the case of the public interest. It has to be said though, that Mr Justice Eady seems to take some convincing that a person's sexual relationships are matters of legitimate public interest. What is new is the way that social media have been used to inform people more quickly of the existence of these injunctions \u2013 as we saw with the huge interest generated in the superinjunction obtained against the Guardian by Trafigura. This interest intensified when Stephen Fry and others, with followers in the millions, tweeted their consternation at the way this injunction seemed to be stifling legitimate investigative journalism. This is not the death of the injunction, privacy or confidentiality. It has just made injunctive relief a little more difficult in the small numbers of cases involving the personal lives of celebrities. Those bravely tweeting details that are subject to injunction might be relying on the safety of the mob \u2013 the \"I Am Spartacus\" belief that thousand or millions are beyond prosecution. But if you suddenly find you are the only Spartacus, or one of 10, or 20, it might be the most expensive tweet you ever wrote. However, from the lofty heights of the Trafigura Twitterstorm we now seem, in recent days, to be plumbing the depths of what social media can be used to expose. After all, in the last 48 hours we have not learned of gagging orders obtained by corporations stifling journalistic endeavour. We have instead been treated to a series of tweets revealing the identity of celebrities said to have sought injunctions over allegations invariably sexual in their nature. If this is the brave new world of journalism some might wonder when it is going to move out of the bedroom and into the boardroom.",
  "title": "Twitter-tattle about celebrity sex lives is little to celebrate | David Banks",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/superinjunctions",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/privacy",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/media",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "David Banks: Undermining superinjunctions can be in the public interest, but social media is plumbing the depths of what it can expose",
  "id": "commentisfree/2011/may/09/twitter-celebrity-superinjunctions-public-interest",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}