{
  "content": "To Claridge's on Monday, where Carolyn Everson, Facebook's global advertising chief, will take the stage at Fortune's one-day gathering of the most powerful women in British business. Other formidable speakers include Thomas Cook boss Harriet Green, architect Zaha Hadid and former tennis number one Billie Jean King. Everson will be in her element. A mother of twin girls, she has backed her boss Sheryl Sandberg's controversial book on women and work, Lean In. Everson moved her family to London in December after Joanna Shields left her job running Facebook's European operations to head London's Tech City. This will be one of her last speaking engagements before returning to the US, having found a replacement for Shields. Advertising guru Nicola Mendelsohn, another poster girl for working mums, starts at Facebook's Covent Garden HQ on Monday. She is understood to be working a four-day week, suggesting Facebook pays more than lip service to work/life balance. Awkwardly, Shields will also be speaking at the Claridge's event. It is a sign of the less macho approach taken by women in business that she and Everson are appearing on the same bill. Expect more sister act than sharpened stilettos from the digital dames. Nat back at the coalface Place your bets now on whether the formidable Lady Serena Rothschild, as well-known for breeding racehorses as financiers, will accompany her son Nat on his latest clash with the board of Bumi, the London-listed Indonesian coal miner. Scandal-tarnished Bumi will hold its annual meeting on Wednesday, and both Rothschild and shareholder group Pirc are urging votes against the directors. Rothschild asked his mother along when Bumi shareholders gathered for an emergency meeting in February. His attempt to seize control by having 12 of the company's 14 directors ejected was defeated, but the banking dynasty's most high-profile heir is ready for another round. Bumi's shares have been suspended since April, after it was revealed that millions had gone missing in spurious payments. A return to trading is being held up as directors struggle to exit from their relationship with Indonesia's powerful Bakrie family. In a statement on Friday, Rothschild described the situation as a \"disaster\" and urged Bumi's chief executive, Nick von Schirnding, to forgo his bonus and \"plan his departure\". Schirnding is staying mum. Every little million helps There is no shortage of issues likely to upset the trolleys of Tesco shareholders at the retailer's annual general meeting on Friday. The horsemeat scandal trampled consumer confidence in ready meals after the protein in its Everyday Value spaghetti bolognese was found to be predominantly equine. The 50% drop in annual profits announced in April, the first fall in almost 20 years, has taken its toll on the shares. And this was of course the year Tesco gave up on its dreams of making it big in America. Plenty of Brits have come a cropper trying to make their mark on the other side of the pond, but what shareholders may find most galling is the lavish payoff awarded to Tim Mason, the departing boss of Tesco's US chain. The Fresh &amp; Easy venture never made a profit, yet Mason was awarded \u00a31.7m in \"liquidated damages\". He was also paid \u00a3100,000 in \"repatriation costs\". These payments were on top off the \u00a3691,00 salary and \u00a3400,000 benefits Mason earned in his last year, and the 2m shares he owns or has an option on. Mason has also built up a \u00a310.4m pension pot. Tesco had the equivalent of 416,441 full time staff last year, and a wage bill of \u00a35.98bn, suggesting average earnings of just over \u00a314,000. Mason's \"damages\" alone could have supported 100 shelf-stackers.",
  "title": "Facebook's powerhouse women avoid face-off",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/joannashields",
    "technology/sheryl-sandberg",
    "business/tesco",
    "business/bumi-resources",
    "artanddesign/zaha-hadid"
  ],
  "lead": "They have gone their separate ways, but it will be company manners for Carolyn Everson and Joanna Shields at Claridge's",
  "id": "technology/2013/jun/23/facebook-powerhouse-women-avoid-faceoff",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}