{
  "content": "Max Fisher at the Washington Post, meanwhile, writes, \"Edward Snowden, patriot?\" and explains why he considers this a silly question: \"Speaking for myself, I have no reason to believe that I can know what's in Snowden's head or heart.\"  Congressman Peter King, a big fan of all surveillance, all the time, is furious at Obama for offering even suggesting he might offer a few modest half-concessions today: The President's announcement today that he will pursue \"reforms\" to National Security Agency counterterrorism programs is a monumental failure in presidential wartime leadership and responsibility. These programs are legal, transparent and contain the appropriate checks and balances among the executive, legislative and judicial branches of our government. These intelligence tools keep Americans safe every single day. America is at war with Islamist terror groups that kill and maim innocent civilians. The current threat to the Homeland is just as high as it was before 9/11. It is difficult to imagine past war leaders such as Franklin Roosevelt or Winston Churchill willingly surrendering signals intelligence tools that are needed to fight our enemies. We need a president who defends our intelligence programs, explains them appropriately to the American people, and uses every legal capability in his arsenal to defeat al Qaeda. When President Obama said that Edward Snowden is not a patriot, he invited an onslaught of ten billion people to write op-eds about how Snowden is a patriot. Get comfortable. Here's the Washington Post's Ezra Klein with the first shot, in \"Edward Snowden, patriot.\" Obama allowed that \"those who have lawfully raised their voices on behalf of privacy and civil liberties are also patriots who love our country and want it to live up to our highest ideals.\" But most all of those people would say Snowden strengthened their hand immeasurably. Obama's frustration with Snowden is that he interrupted what could have been \"a lawful, orderly examination of these laws; a thoughtful, fact-based debate.\" The White House believes Snowden's leaks \u2014 and the drip-drip-drip way the Guardian released them \u2014 left the public misinformed. And at times, that's certainly true. The initial reports on PRISM, for instance, clearly suggested that the program was wider in scope than it actually is. But the White House could have led that thoughtful, fact-based debate, and despite Obama's protestations to the contrary, they didn't. They prevented it. If this conversation, and these reforms, are as positive for the country as Obama says they are, then it's hard to escape the conclusion that Snowden did the country a real service \u2014 even if the White House can't abide crediting him with it. What you missed: \u2022 President Obama announced a 4-part plan to reassure the public about the government's controversial surveillance programs. While stating that he hasn't \"evolved\" in his assessment of the programs - as in, he still considers them as crucial as ever - he did pledge to reexamine section 215 of the Patriot Act, make a privacy advocate privy to the doings of the FISC, and more. \u2022 Obama said that he does \"not think Mr. Snowden is a patriot\". He criticized him for dealing with his misgivings about NSA programs in the manner he did. \u2022 He claimed that he is not near a decision on the next Fed chair. But had kind words for both top candidates, Janet Yellen and Larry Summers, the latter of whom he feels obligated to defend given the \"slapping around\" he's been taking in the commentariat. \u2022 He was not kind to Republicans who are trying to block the implementation of Obamacare, saying (among other things), \"The one unifying principle in the Republican party at the moment is making sure that 30 million people don't have healthcare.\" This sums it up nicely: The press conference is over. The topic now is immigration reform: he still supports it, thinks it would be a boost to the economy, and believes the senate bill gives border security hawks everything they want. He hopes the House can make a few adjustments, within his broader criteria for an acceptable framework, and bring that bill to the floor. He also laments the internal \"caucus politics\" (i.e., House Republicans not bringing the senate bill to the floor because it would pass with a majority of Democratic floors) that are preventing things from moving forward. Regarding (part of) the GOP's current \"shut down the government over Obamacare\" stand: \"The idea that you would shut down the government unless you prevent 30 million people from getting health care is a bad idea.\" Our US national security editor Spencer Ackerman has been listening in to Obama's press conference and has this initial analysis of what we have heard: This is the furthest President Obama has gestured in the direction of reining in the expansive surveillance apparatus that has swelled since 9-11. Characteristically for Obama, it's extremely cautious and \u2013 crucially \u2013 does not stop any of the controversial bulk surveillance programs that brought him to this point. \"I haven't evolved in my assessment of the programs,\" he said. Obama's stated reforms could either be monumental or miniscule. It's too early to tell, since Obama committed himself to nothing. He said he would re-examine reining in the bulk surveillance on Americans' phone records without suspicion of wrongdoing; and was open to installing a privacy advocate on the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, which currently has the government as its only petitioner. Both of those steps would be major. If Obama actually takes them. He has yet to announce them. Obama's other reforms, such as greater transparency, also require greater specificity before they can be evaluated. Transparency is valuable in programs so secret. Whether they will be sufficient to serve as bulwarks against abuse also remains to be seen.  What doesn't inspire confidence is Obama's announcement of a new website to \"inform\" Americans about the bulk surveillance and \"make the American people more comfortable.\" Senators Wyden and Udall have caught major misleading statements about NSA powers in previous website factsheets.  Fox News' Ed Henry asks about the implementation of Obamacare and the anniversary of the Benghazi attacks through the clever ruse of \"upcoming things\" that he can lump into one question. We're still working on tracking down the Benghazi plotters, he says. Give him time. \"I also said we'd get bin Laden and we didn't get him in 11 months.\" He touts the virtues of the new health care law and mentions that whatever small tweaks he and allies are making ahead of implementation are not cutting away at the core of the program.  Now, as for his opponents: \"The one unifying principle in the Republican party at the moment is making sure that 30 million people don't have healthcare.\" A question about the state of Al Qaeda. \"Core Al Qaeda\" may be weakened, as he's said in the past, but the terrorist threat has \"metastasized\" into other regional terrorist groups everywhere. He is using another metaphor, about how he doesn't expect Michelle Obama to trust him when he says he's done all the dishes, so she has a right to inspect his dishwashing. We won't read any further into that one. Hmm... Back to surveillance. Obama grants that people are understandably worried about the \"prospect\" of the NSA abusing their records, even though the NSA would never ever do that. So he has no problem having a \"conversation with civil libertarians\" about tightening up the safeguards in the system. \"We do not have an interest\" in doing anything other than foiling terrorism plots. But people \"may have other ideas\" so he's willing to \"jigger\" the balance. Question 3, about the rumors surrounding his appointment of the next Federal Reserve chair. Will it be Janet Yellen or Larry Summers or someone else out there? Does all this chatter surrounding it annoy you? \"I have a range of outstanding candidates -- you've mentioned two of them,\" Obama says, referring to Yellen and Summers. \"The perception that Mr. Summers may have an inside track... may have to do with a bunch of attacks I was hearing on Mr. Summers preemptively that I didn't like.\" He talks about Summers getting \"slapped around\" in the press and how he felt the need to \"stand up for him.\"  \"My main criteria is... somebody who understands they've got a dual mandate\" between maintaining low inflation and full employment.  (HINT: It's a metaphor about transparency. Or is it?) If Snowden \"believes what he did was right, he can come here and face the courts.\" He reiterates that he ordered a review well before Snowden came forward and messed everything up. Question 2: NBC News' Chuck Todd wants to know whether Edward Snowden is a whistleblower or a patriot or any other name he'd like to call him, and how his \"personal\" relationship with Putin is. Obama says his personal relationship with Putin is fine. These disputes are about where Russia wants to go. And: \"No, I don't think Mr. Snowden is a patriot.\" Obama says that the cancellation of the summit with Russia was not about Edward Snowden but about a series of issues the countries are stuck on. Obama is describing how Vladimir Putin's return to the presidency has brought back a lot of anti-American, Cold War-era \"rhetoric\" to Russian politics that's hampered the two countries' abilities to work together on several issues. He hopes to work past that. He reiterates that he does \"not think it's appropriate\" to boycott the Sochi Olympics in 2014. He's looking forward to some \"gay and lesbian athletes\" bringing home medals as a rejection of the Russian government's anti-gay policies. Question time, first from the AP, about the relationship with Russia. Fourth: the website. Second: He will work with congress to discuss reforms to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC). He touts a measure that would address \"civil liberties concerns\", suggesting that an independent advocate could be appointed who would challenge the government's case. At the moment, the court is non-adversarial.  First: He will work with congress to discuss \"appropriate\" reforms to section 215 of the Patriot Act (under which phone records are collected in bulk). Obama is describing a \"rebalancing\" review he ordered between protecting civil liberties and security, and how \"leaks\" disrupted that process. The press conference is beginning now. Buzzfeed reports that there's going to be... a flashy new website! WASHINGTON \u2014 The Obama administration announced on Friday it will create a new website to address concerns over the transparency of controversial dragnet surveillance programs. \"We also will be creating a website next week that is going to serve as the hub for further transparency, so this can be a home for citizens who are interested in learning more about our activities and declassifying efforts in responding to queries that people have about these programs,\" said a senior administration official on a phone call with reporters ahead of a scheduled President Obama press conference. Make your wagers: Specifics on the reform measures Obama plans to announce are light (nonexistent) in early reports. NBC News' sources say that \"the reforms are aimed creating greater transparency and restoring public confidence in the program\" and that Obama \"is expected to indicate that more needs to be done to ease concerns and prevent abuse of the agency's far-reaching intelligence collection abilities.\" A \"House aide briefed on the plan\" tells the Wall Street Journal that the measured are intended to \"increase transparency and restore public trust\" in government surveillance programs. Good afternoon. We're here to cover President Obama's first press conference since 30 April before he jets off to Martha's Vineyard for his annual summer vacation.  Obama announced the press conference yesterday by telling a reporter to save his question for this afternoon. The topics could include anything, but NBC News reports that the president will announce new surveillance oversight measures: This comes as the Guardian has published its latest exclusive on NSA surveillance this afternoon: The National Security Agency has a secret backdoor into its vast databases under a legal authority enabling it to search for US citizens' email and phone calls without a warrant, according to a top-secret document passed to the Guardian by Edward Snowden. The previously undisclosed rule change allows NSA operatives to hunt for individual Americans' communications using their name or other identifying information. Senator Ron Wyden told the Guardian that the law provides the NSA with a loophole potentially allowing \"warrantless searches for the phone calls or emails of law-abiding Americans\". The press conference is scheduled to begin at 3pm ET.",
  "title": "Obama touts NSA privacy safeguards at press conference \u2013 live blog",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "us-news/us-politics",
    "world/surveillance",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world",
    "us-news/obama-administration",
    "law/fisa-court",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "law/law",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "President announces new privacy safeguards for NSA surveillance programs including reforms to Fisa court and Patriot act",
  "id": "world/2013/aug/09/obama-press-conference-nsa-reforms-live",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}