{
  "content": "A cybercrime ring that used millions of hacked computers in Britain to steal banking information has been shut down by European police and technology companies. Europol's European cybercrime centre coordinated the operation from its headquarters in The Hague, targeting the so-called Ramnit botnet \u2013 a network of computers infected with malware. It worked with investigators from Britain, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands and was assisted by companies AnubisNetworks, Microsoft and Symantec, which said 3.2m computers were hacked. 'The criminals have lost control' Computers around the world have been infected by the botnet, but most users have been infected in Britain, said Paul Gillen, head of operations at the cybercrime centre. Ramnit has been infecting computers since 2012. \"We worked together to shut down the command-and-control servers for the network in various countries across the European Union. The criminals have lost control of the infrastructure they were using,\" Gillen said. Wil van Gemert, Europol deputy director of operations, said the operation underlined the importance of law enforcement agencies working with the private industry to tackle cybercrime. \"We will continue our efforts in taking down botnets and disrupting the core infrastructures used by criminals to conduct a variety of cybercrimes \u2026 our aim is to protect people around the world against these criminal activities,\" he said. Seven servers used by the cybercriminals were shut down overnight. The malware, installed through links on spam email or infected websites, enabled culprits to take control of the PCs and use them for criminal activities. Online banking details, passwords, cookies and personal files were harvested from victims. Symantec said that the Ramnit network had \"evolved into a major criminal enterprise\" that defrauded large numbers of victims. The online security company released a free tool to let users remove Ramnit infections from a computer. The British-led investigation was continuing and Gillen declined to comment on any possible arrests. Europol, the European police agency, has been coordinating cross-border efforts to take down criminal infrastructure on the internet and prosecute offenders.",
  "title": "Europol shuts down Ramnit botnet that infected 3.2m computers",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/cybercrime"
  ],
  "lead": "Seven servers being used to control millions of devices infected by Ramnit - including many in Britain - have been shut down overnight.",
  "id": "technology/2015/feb/25/europol-shuts-down-ramnit-botnet-that-infected-32m-computers",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}