{
  "content": "Eleven major companies including Facebook, Google, Yahoo and Apple have been accused of infringing patents belonging to a company linked to Paul Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft - sparking another debate online about the value of \"patents\" in cyberspace. Interval Licensing says that the companies, also including eBay, AOL, Netflix, Office Depot, OfficeMax, Staples and Google's YouTube subsidiary are infringing the patents, which relate to e-commerce and search. Notably absent from the list of targeted companies are Amazon and Microsoft - though the owner of a patent is not obliged to sue everyone considered to be infringing at once, or at all. Interval is seeking damages and the end of the infringement. Google, Facebook and eBay said they will fight the accusations by Interval, which owns a portfolio of technology patents but does not manufacture anything. \"This lawsuit against some of America's most innovative companies reflects an unfortunate trend of people trying to compete in the courtroom instead of the marketplace,\" a Google spokesman said in an emailed statement. \"Innovation - not litigation - is the way to bring to market the kinds of products and services that benefit millions of people around the world.\" Facebook spokesman Andrew Noyes said: \"We believe this suit is completely without merit and we will fight it vigorously.\" None of the other companies had a comment on the lawsuit. The claims, made late on Friday night, have led to accusations by some observers that Allen is acting as a \"patent troll\" - suing active companies via patents obtained by now-defunct or inactive companies which are not actively developing technology. However David Postman, a spokesman for Interval spokesman, defended the lawsuit as necessary to protect its investment in innovation.\"We are not asserting patents that other companies have filed, nor are we buying patents originally assigned to someone else,\" he said. \"These are patents developed by and for Interval.\" Perhaps in an attempt to distance itself from accusations of patent trolling, the lawsuit points out Allen's deep history with Google, including his early funding of its founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page - apparently to try to distinguish this lawsuit from other opportunistic patent litigation, Stanford professor and IP litigator Mark Lemley told the Associated Press. \"It's usually an indication either that the patents are invalid, or they're overclaiming them,\" said Lemley, whose law firm represents Google and Netflix in unrelated matters. \"Part of what's going on here is the plaintiffs are going out of their way to say, 'Hey, look, we're really important people. We're real innovators.\" Among the patents are one for the \"Browser for use in navigating a body of information, with particular application to browsing information represented by audiovisual data\" (USPTO 6,263,507); two for an \"Attention manager for occupying the peripheral attention of a person in the vicinity of a display device\" (USPTO 6,034,652 and 6,788,314) and another for \"Alerting users to items of current interest.\" (USPTO 6,757,682). Allen's shares in Microsoft - which he founded with Gates in 1975 but from which he resigned in 1983 after being diagnosed with non-Hodkins lymphoma - have helped make him the 37th-richest person in the world, worth about $13.5bn. He co-founded Interval Research in 1992 to develop communications and computer technology. At its largest it employed more than 110 scientists and engineers, and filed patents covering internet search and display innovations, according to the lawsuit. Interval Research officially closed in April 2000; its 300-odd patents were taken over by Interval Licensing. Patents on software and business processes have become a b\u00eate noire among web companies, who have claimed that they act as a financial drag on innovation online, and that the US Patent Office is especially poor at examining patent claims for \"prior art\" which would disqualify them, or that it awards patents on needlessly wide claims which mean that it is almost impossible for companies to use accepted web technologies without accidentally infringing on them. One of the most notable was Amazon's patent for its \"1-Click\" shopping system, which was filed in 1997, accepted and then rejected and finally passed by the USPTO in March this year. Amazon has licensed the technology to Apple, among others. Such patents have repeatedly created controversy. in 2000 British Telecom attempted to claim that it had a patent on the hyperlink; its claim collapsed in 2002 on the basis that the patent referred to a \"central computer\" - which the internet does not have. More famously, SCO claimed to have patents that would cover significant parts of the free Linux operating system. Another former Microsoft executive, Nathan Myhrvold, has been accused of \"patent trolling\" after his company Intellectual Ventures began amassing patents, apparently with a view to suing active companies that it viewed as infringing them. Interval Licensing has issued a press release about the case.",
  "title": "Google, Facebook and Apple among 11 companies targeted in patent lawsuit by ex-Microsoft founder",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/intellectual-property",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/apple",
    "technology/google",
    "law/law",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "lead": "Company headed by ex-Microsoft founder Paul Allen claims patents relating to e-commerce and search held by Interval Licensing have been infringed",
  "id": "technology/blog/2010/aug/29/paul-allen-interval-patent-lawsuit-google-facebook-apple",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}