{
  "content": "The other day I was composing an email to a friend, using my iPad with my BT email account. When I paused, I was astonished to see the following text typed before my eyes: \"Sure Valleyside is now able to get easier and cheaper to upload your photo Is something you like to do Josh show people what this report has not to mention where the Christmas spirit blasting your own basic children's faces on Christmas card is something you would do by over 30 tonight\" (etc). BT has confirmed my email account has not been hacked but could offer no explanation. Is this an Apple issue or something else? I am worried that my security has been compromised. Lorna It's not unknown for computers to \"type by themselves\", but usually there is a rational explanation. For example, some programs and even some keyboards can record and replay strings of texts using macro facilities, which are provided to save retyping. People who are not aware of these macro features can accidentally record text, assign it to a key combination, then accidentally play it back. Electronic or mechanical glitches can also produce \"ghost typing,\" and this is a known problem \u2013 albeit a pretty rare problem \u2013 with Apple iPads. Here, one of the most believable theories is that tight accessory cases put pressure on the back of the device, though there may well be multiple causes. These have been discussed in Apple's support conferences. See, for example, \"iPad typing on it's own and moving between pages\" (sic) and \"iPad behaving erratically: 'ghost touching'\". Some users report that Apple replaced their iPads. You could think about these possibilities, but I don't think either of them caused your problem. With a macro, you'd probably recognise the text (most of which I have not published above). With an electronic or mechanical glitch, I'd expect random characters not comprehensible sentences. In this case, it looks as though you're picking up someone else's typing. The question is: Where is it coming from? Is it from your iPad, your wireless network, or from BT's network? Usually, the best way to tackle a glitch is to eliminate all but one of the possibilities in turn to isolate the problem. For example, you could test BT's network by using a different device with a cable connection, and you could test your wireless by logging on from a different location, and so on. However, I suspect that you won't be able to reproduce the glitch. Indeed, it may never happen again. Security issues I don't know of any way of remotely hacking an iPad that hasn't been \"jailbroken\", so I don't think its security has been compromised. Even if it had been, I wouldn't expect hackers to waste their time typing random sentences into your emails. However, your iPad might be picking up wireless signals from somebody else's machine, either via Wi-Fi or Bluetooth. I don't think this is likely, but at least you can eliminate the possibility. There are three things you can do to secure your Wi-Fi router. First, make sure that you have not left kept the default administrator name and password, and change the password to something longer and hard to guess. Second, your router is probably giving away too much information about what kind of device it is (BT, Linksys, TP Link etc): change the SSID to something impersonal, and change the password. Third, make sure you are using WPA2 security. You could also run an app to check that no one else is using your network. This is something you'd usually do on a PC, where there are lots of options, such as Wireshark. However, Nutec's Net Master HD is an app that will do the job from an iPad, and there may be some free options. With Net Master HD, you can scan your home network to find all the devices that are attached to it, and also do a port scan to find any open ports. As for Bluetooth, if you're not using it to connect a keyboard or collect data from a smartphone etc, you can turn it off. The odds of your not-jailbroken iPad having some sort of malware are so close to zero that it's not worth checking. (That includes Wirelurker.) However, if you have downloaded some dodgy apps, the most secure option would be to reset your iPad to factory condition, install only the apps you want from the Apple Store, and restore your data from a backup. Email options Perhaps the ghost text leaked into your email due to some glitch in BT's network or its new email service. (The old one was run by Yahoo.) Again, I don't think it's likely, and since you will have used a secure (https) connection to log on, it ought to be impossible. However, the experience might prompt you to think about moving to a different email service. The problem with using your internet service provider's email service is that it discourages you from switching your ISP. If you use an independent service \u2013 such as Google's Gmail, Microsoft's Outlook.com, Zoho or Fastmail \u2013 you can change ISPs without having to change your email address. In general, I recommend buying your own domain name, preferably for a decade at a time. Once you own your name, you can point it to whichever email service you like. For more details, see my answer from 2010: Solve email problems forever by setting up Gmail with your own domain Although you have probably missed the chance to get a good .com name, there are now more than a hundred options including .uk and .eu. Admittedly some of them are rather limited, such as .army and .navy, .diamonds, .fail, .ninja and .vodka. At this stage, there's not much to choose between the various email offerings. I'm still mainly on Gmail, but Microsoft is building up a decent collection of iPad apps, including OneDrive, OneNote, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Skype, Lync etc. If you happen to use those, then Outlook.com or even Office 365 Personal might be better options. Have you got a query? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Why is my iPad typing text by itself?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/ipad",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/computing"
  ],
  "lead": "Lorna was typing an email on her iPad when someone or something else started entering text. Has her security been compromised? ",
  "id": "technology/askjack/2014/dec/11/why-is-my-ipad-typing-text-by-itself",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}