{
  "content": "Stephen Sedley, a former high court and appeal court judge, has made one of the most sober and sensible contributions to the often fevered debate over privacy. In fact, his article in the London Review of Books, The Goodwin and Giggs show, is probably the best exposition of the recent clash between the twin sovereignties of parliament and the courts. He leaves readers in no doubt about the waywardness of parliamentarians who dared to challenge the courts by naming people who had obtained anonymised injunctions. He reminds us once again - though some editors, MPs and noble lordships refuse to admit it - that parliament enacted the human rights act in 1998, which contained a specific clause protecting the right to a private family life. Sedley writes: \"What the tabloids do not like about it is that the law now recognises that celebrities too have aspects of their lives that are private.\" And he blames the media's lack of respect for court orders for the birth of the superinjunction. They were, he argues, \"forced on the courts by the repeated undermining of their orders.\" He continues: \"Observers with a sense of history have noted that the tabloids' self-justification, advanced in the name of press freedom, mirrors that of the authoritarian state. The Sun columnist Jane Moore admonishes errant public figures, 'If you don't want your private life splashed all over the papers, then behave yourselves.' Or, as it was once put, if you have nothing to hide you have nothing to fear \u2013 for there is only one way the state or The Sun can know whether you are behaving yourself. This is why the issues are large. It can be credibly said that the fourth estate is close to being a state within the state, unregulated except to the modest extent that it chooses to regulate itself and alternately feared and pandered to by public figures.\" Sedley then goes beyond tabloid tittle-tattle to point to other examples of parliament bringing the law into contempt. \"The Goodwin-Giggs debacle has not come out of the blue. More than one minister in the Major and Blair governments broke convention by publicly attacking not only decisions they found objectionable but the judges who had given them... It was in February that the current crisis was prefigured, when David Cameron in parliament spoke damagingly about the supreme court's decision that some sex offenders ought to be able, in the course of time, to ask to be removed from the register, calling it 'completely offensive' and contrary to common sense; an attack taken up by the home secretary (who thought it appropriate to question the sanity of the decision), but sharply criticised in The Times by the crossbench lawyer-peer Lord Pannick. The naming of Goodwin and Giggs is on a different plane from ministerial briefings against judges, inappropriate as these are, because it disrupts the historic equilibrium between the judiciary and the legislature. The media may present themselves as amused spectators, but it is they who have provoked and exploited the breakdown of an element in the democracy they themselves inhabit.\" What is so striking about Sedley's article is the way in which it illustrates the seriousness of the three-way conflict between parliament, the courts and the media. This is about more than whether we learn about a footballer's indiscretions. That's the superficial, headline bit. It is about the rule of law. We should not forget the wisdom in Aristotle's simple formulation: \"Law should govern.\" Though, as an unashamed admirer of Thomas Paine, I prefer his version of the same principle: \"The law is king.\" We forget this at our peril. Read all of Sedley's article here.",
  "title": "How the tabloids created the need for superinjunctions and now imperil the rule of law",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "law/superinjunctions",
    "law/judiciary",
    "football/ryan-giggs",
    "business/sir-fred-goodwin",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/medialaw",
    "law/law",
    "law/human-rights-act",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "politics/davidcameron",
    "politics/tonyblair",
    "politics/john-major"
  ],
  "lead": "Former judge Stephen Sedley makes a major contribution to the debate over privacy, as Roy Greenslade outlines",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2011/jun/24/privacy-superinjunctions",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}