{
  "content": "Washington state and Colorado are now the first political jurisdictions in the world to legalize marijuana. Voters in Massachusetts took similar steps, making Massachusetts the 18th state to approve marijuana for medicinal purposes. Tuesday night's election signaled a profound shift in the way many Americans are beginning to view drug policy, with voters favoring treatment and prevention over interdiction and incarceration. Critics of the marijuana initiatives argue that legalization will make our children more susceptible to drug use \u2013 but without the burden of mass incarceration, the states can allocate more funding to prevention. In fact, Washington's law has set a 25% sales tax to fund schools, health insurance and drug prevention \u2013 and today's teens need effective drug prevention. A recent Casa Columbia survey (pdf) determined that high schoolers estimate nearly one in five of their classmates is drugging, drinking and smoking during the school day. Almost half claim they know a student who sells drugs on campus, and a third say it's easy for students to drink, use and smoke at school without getting busted. So, it's no wonder that worried parents have traditionally supported \"scare the health into teenagers\" media campaigns like \"This is your brain on drugs.\" It's been 25 years since the infamous \"This is your brain on drugs\" campaign first launched. Although decades of prevention research shows that fear-based initiatives do not effectively reduce youth substance use, we continue to overlook evidence-based tactics in order to put more gruesome images of car crashes and hospital patients on our television screens. When my high school collected data on drinking behaviors, most students were like those surveyed by Casa Columbia: Bobby, Sue, Jim, Debra and Tad were all certain that their friends were drinking and drugging regularly. The problem was that only Tad admitted to sometimes drinking. I'd heard rumors about other students, so I assumed that most high schoolers partied. But none of my friends actually drank. Of course, my own drinking and drugging was deeply influenced by my misconception that I was the only teen missing out on these parties. Peer influence is powerful, which explains why the most progressive drug prevention campaigns leverage peer attitudes in order to promote healthy behaviors among today's teens. I've worked on two such campaigns \u2013 targeting drinking and sexual violence behaviors. Rather than dramatize bad outcomes, the social norms approach aims to accurately inform young people of peer behaviors. More traditional methods tend to frame efforts as \"anti-alcohol\" or \"anti-rape\", while social norming is more pro-information than anti-anything. Drug prevention campaigns have relied on scare tactics to reach young people for nearly a century \u2013 think of \"Reefer Madness\". Even though research has shown that these approaches are not effective (pdf) in preventing, or producing sustained reductions in, teenagers' substance use, health advocacy groups continue to use alarming information with the hope that it will encourage young people to make positive decisions. You've likely seen one of the commercials for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's latest scare-tactics campaign, \"Tips From Former Smokers\". The $54m campaign features graphic footage of ex-smokers suffering from cancer, amputations, paralysis and other conditions linked to smoking. Each time I see \"Suzie\" struggle while her son bathes her on the CDC's commercial, I am reminded of the anti-smoking lecture I received from a man with a hole in his throat in sixth-grade Dare (Drug Abuse Resistance Education). Regardless of my childhood love for Dare, when it finally came time to refuse an offered smoke, I had more trust in my friends than in the local police force. The smokers I knew looked nothing like the strung-out losers I had seen in so many afterschool videos \u2013 in fact, they were honors students at first-tier universities, none with drug experience. This is a common problem with scare tactics. If some of the information provided in the scare story doesn't ring true to the average teen experience, youngsters discredit the message and mistrust future campaigns (pdf). The parts of the human brain responsible for decision-making, impulse control and judgment do not fully mature until one's mid-twenties, making teens more likely to take risks (pdf). When you're 16, horror stories on behalf of recovering addicts, mock drunk-driving crashes and cancer photos cannot begin to compete with the power of your friend's opinions. The Casa study confirmed that today's teens are particularly vulnerable to the \"everybody does it\" myth because of social networking sites. Compared to teens who haven't seen party photos online, teens who have are more than three times as likely to have used alcohol. When teenagers incorrectly assume that certain extreme behaviors represent the norm, it can influence the behaviors of the majority (pdf). Social norms interventions seek to disrupt the power of misinformed assumptions. Critics of social norming argue that downplaying the severity of an issue will cause more problems than it will solve. But if students are making poor decisions due to the incorrect belief that \"everybody does it\", why not give them the facts? There is no need to increase funding for prevention if we're going to continue using hyperbole to \"scare the health\" into teens. While fear-based strategies like the CDC's \"Tips for former smokers\" campaign may work to temporarily mobilize large numbers of concerned parents and teens, the sustained behavioral and systemic change that voters demanded on Tuesday night will only come with a change in social norms.",
  "title": "Legalising marijuana signals new social norms US drugs policy must match | Chelsea Carmona",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "society/drugs",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "world/world",
    "society/cannabis",
    "us-news/colorado",
    "us-news/usdomesticpolicy",
    "us-news/us-crime",
    "society/health",
    "society/mental-health",
    "society/youngpeople",
    "media/social-media",
    "us-news/washington-state",
    "society/smoking",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "Chelsea Carmona: With Washington and Colorado voting for recreational marijuana use, it's time to update how we educate young people on drugs",
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/nov/09/legalising-marijuana-us-drugs-policy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}