{
  "content": "This column contains 710 words, every one of which has been filtered through a fine mesh of professional scrutiny involving several sophisticated sub-editorial minds. So it represents a deliberate opinion. It may be wrong, but it is considered. It can be read and digested in less than five minutes. In our current print climate, this makes it borderline freakish. We live amid a blizzard of words. Never has mankind been assailed by so much language from so many different media, written and spoken, or broadcast and digital. Shakespeare's schoolmaster Holofernes, who \"eats paper\" and \"drinks ink\", has nothing on the 21st-century citizens of mass literacy. More does not mean better. Alexander Pope nailed this in his Essay on Criticism: \"Words are like leaves; and where they most abound/ Much fruit of sense beneath is rarely found\". Brevity is all. Give me The Great Gatsby (fewer than 60,000 words) over Franzen's Freedom (north of 200,000) any day. One way to extract goodness from this explosion of print is to cut, reduce and distil. People moan about text and tweet culture, as Niall Ferguson did in a recent edition of Newsweek, but where's the harm? In good hands, tweets can become the haiku of everyday life. As a fan of brevity, I was pleased last week to read our poet laureate, Carol Ann Duffy, celebrating the significance of texting. Ms Duffy said: \"The poem is the original text. It's a perfecting of feeling in language \u2013 a way of saying more with less.\" This was not a throwaway line. Duffy went on to say, deliberately, that poetry is the perfect form for the Facebook generation. A poem, she said, \"is a kind of time capsule \u2013 it allows feelings and ideas to travel big distances in a very condensed form.\" Texts and tweets, like poetry, represent language at play. Robert Louis Stevenson celebrated the high gloss of literary concision in a slightly different way. \"The only art is to omit,\" he wrote. America, which can be the natural home of the windbag, is also the pioneer of brevity. The Declaration of Independence is the most succinct prospectus for a new society ever written. The Gettysburg Address, 266 words of compressed brilliance, probably took Abraham Lincoln less than three minutes to deliver. American brevity is underpinned by a classic primer like Strunk and White's The Elements of Style, whose mantra \"omit needless words\" has become burned into generations of American literary minds. The Age of the Shrunk Message, of headlines, soundbites, bullet points, brand names, catchphrases and slogans, from \"Yes We Can\" to \"Just Say No\", requires a new handbook. From America comes a 225-page paean to brevity by Christopher Johnson, Microstyle: The Art of Writing Little (Norton). Johnson is that familiar figure in the American cultural economy, the engaging hustler. \"The art of writing,\" he declares, \"has come to depend not upon the elements of style, but the atoms of style.\" Mash up your Fowler, he suggests. In a media-savvy society whose readers have come to expect instant gratification, tips for extended prose writing are redundant. In place of Strunk and White, Johnson celebrates a new generation of microstylists: Constance Hale, author of Sin and Syntax and Mignon Fogarty, author of Grammar Girl's Quick and Dirty Tips for Better Writing. These brash miniaturists inhabit a new literary landscape. Swamped by an \"unimaginable sea of documents, databases and images\", the humble reader must \"scan, skim and screen\". Microstyle, Johnson argues, is the name for that catchy and concise \"message\" which focuses our attention. Note that he uses \"message\" not \"writing\". Microstyle might be poetry, but it might just as well be advertising. Either way, there's no escaping the way we live now: zapped by images from widescreen TVs, bombarded by emails and texts, and distracted by tweets, iPads and Facebook. Mike Bartlett, one of our most interesting new playwrights, discussed this phenomenon recently in a Prospect interview. The literary process, he noted, has become \"atomised and mixed up. I really want to find a theatre that can reflect that landscape\". First poetry, now drama: the signs are that texting is beginning to yield a literary dividend, although we probably draw the line at the witty text rendering of Hamlet's most famous line: 2b?Nt2b? = ? Birmingham bites back at Prince Charles Prince Charles once observed, perhaps betraying an unconscious disdain for literature, that the Birmingham Central Library looks like \"a place where books are incinerated, not kept\". HRH will have to mind his tongue in future. Defying a trend in which libraries become coffee shops and refuges for the homeless, Birmingham is spending about \u00a3190m on a new library, designed by the Mecanoo partnership. The new building which was topped out last week, will not only provide a reader-friendly showcase for millions of books, but it will also display city archives and rare books. There's also a Shakespeare memorial room and a connection to Birmingham Rep. All told, the new library rewrites the received wisdom that libraries are a thing of the past, doomed to extinction. Will JK Rowling follow Jordan's example? The model Jordan, who successfully publishes ghosted fiction with titles such as Angel, Crystal and The Comeback Girl under her real name Katie Price, has always been an innovative figure in the world of contemporary prose. She takes the market seriously and never fails to gratify her fans. Her latest venture is Katie: My Magazine, a glossy publication that explores various facets of La Price's life and sells at \u00a33.99. Will it catch on? Will it inspire copycat publications? I look forward to Martina: My Magazine and perhaps, more upmarket, Jeanette. Or Hilary, or Ali? Who could rule out Jo! The Official JK Rowling Magazine. Alternatively, a commercially minded Bront\u00eb estate could launch Charlotte \u2013 or, perhaps, Lottie!",
  "title": "Brevity is the soul of wit. So I'll say this quickly\u2026",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "books/books",
    "culture/culture",
    "books/niall-ferguson",
    "books/carol-ann-duffy",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "media/katieprice"
  ],
  "lead": "Carol Ann Duffy is right to declare that texting and tweeting can be the new poetry, writes Robert McCrum",
  "id": "books/2011/sep/17/texting-microstyle-christopher-johnson",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}