{
  "content": "The picture that graces many of Britain's front pages this morning is of a Scottish woman with crinkly hair whose mother, Bridget, an Irish immigrant shorthand typist, experienced difficulties during birth. Susan Boyle was deprived of oxygen for a number of minutes and has had learning difficulties since. She was born three months before Diana Princess of Wales; four months before me. Susan has rarely held a proper job, caring instead for her mother, who died two years ago at the age of 91. Susan likes to sing, and is really rather fine at it. The picture needs words of explanation. Because it could mark, and should mark, a moment of national reappraisal. Never in our fast-changing history, until Susan Boyle, have we managed to quite so swiftly canonise and then pillory another human being, for our own titillation. For our own grubby, voyeuristic amusement: just because we could. It was just six weeks ago, on 11 April, that Susan first sang on Britain's Got Talent and became an instant hit. Then, in the semi-finals, rather than being jailed for consciously singing a song written by Andrew Lloyd Webber while not actually being held at gunpoint, her success continued. Through the internet, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube. We all watched, and watched again, the starched brows of the judging panel crinkle to genuine emotion; the sneers of the audience cartoon into delight. Then, of course, we started discussing her. America joined in. And so the world had its say. On Susan. On every blog and website: on every online newspaper asking the mob to fill their pages for them. On her hair and her voice. On her figure. On her accent. On, most recently, her swearing, after she got rightly peeved at a couple mocking her in a London hotel. By the time of last night's final, we had learnt, she was close to breaking point, shrilly unnerved by not only the media attention but the knowledge that the world, a much bigger world than the Scottish village of Blackburn, was talking about her. All the time. Of course she swore. She's from West Lothian. She drank, normally in a corner alone, in her local pub (called, with savage Scots humour, the Happy Valley). She swore with the best of them. Hell, if he'd been brought up there, Terry Waite would swear the hole out of a drunken navvie. And sometimes she would get up and sing, and her singing was lovely, and it was what people liked about the lass they'd called \"Simple Susan\". That, and her love for her mother. And I know, of course, that the media played its huge part in this, pretending to \"reflect public attitudes\" while quite consciously sitting there with its big meaty stick in the bowl, stirring up the turds. But this fiercely fast arc of fame/ignominy, this trajectory of wilful judgment through which Susan Boyle has been put - for simply, let's not forget, chunting out a song or two nicely on a talent contest - has been fuelled, hugely, by our twittering, and facebooking, and interacting. Just because we can. Never mind the quality: feel the bandwidth. And Susan has cried. A slightly simple woman who normally drank alone has realised that everyone on the planet, from intrusive journalists such as myself to even more misogynistic morons playing alone on laptops in darkest Missouri or Madagascar, is playing with her life. Not just conjecturing about her armpit hair: actually creating a rise/fall arc of fame. Just because we can. They used to call it, in medieval times, rough music - \"Saucepans, pokers and tongs, marrow-bones and cleavers, beaten upon and sounded in ludicrous procession\" according to Grose's Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue in 1796. The sound of the mob, basically: blaring and battering outside the home of an innocent party. Or, sometimes, a guilty party, but, frankly, who cared? The mob exists to feed and to fuel itself. Yes, we in the media are guilty: guiltier than anyone of course in instant judgment, instant celebrity, instant condemnation. But you, with your snap judgments, and your anger, and most crucially, your ability to communicate all of this in a flirt of a second to the entire world, you have helped immeasurably to talk up Susan's fame, and will help similarly to talk up her fall. Just because you can. Susan Boyle is a sonsie lass, as they say in Scotland: there's a fair hips to her. She's a wee bit simple. She sings pretty well, and good luck to her for that, and I hope she's karaokeing in the Happy Valley this time next year and starting to laugh at it all. But she is not the kernel of the world. And many, many people in Britain, in the first half of this odd and misbegotten year, need to shout a little less, and get out a little more.",
  "title": "How Susan Boyle's song took on a life of its own | Euan Ferguson",
  "lead": "A shy Scottish woman found instant fame, then courted instant infamy. But it's the voice that counts, writes Euan Ferguson",
  "tags": [
    "music/susan-boyle",
    "tv-and-radio/britains-got-talent",
    "media/newspapers",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/youtube",
    "uk/scotland",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/media",
    "tv-and-radio/entertainment",
    "technology/television",
    "tv-and-radio/tv-and-radio",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2009/may/31/susan-boyle-media-effect-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}