{
  "content": "The Press Complaints Commission has confirmed it is to look again at allegations of phone hacking at the News of the World following new revelations about the extent of the practice, in a move that could prompt a re-opening of its investigation. Stephen Abell, the PCC director, has written to Alan Rusbridger, editor-in-chief of the Guardian, confirming that it will re-examine evidence of alleged widespread criminality at the paper during the editorship of Andy Coulson. Coulson is now director of communications and strategy for the Conservative party. The PCC's undertaking has been prompted by a slew of new evidence unearthed by the New York Times and the Guardian this month. In its letter to Rusbridger, the PCC acknowledges that \"both Guardian articles and the New York Times piece have produced material giving rise to concern about behaviour at the News of the World prior to 2006\". \"The commission came to a view \u2013 based on the information available at the time \u2013 as to whether it had been misled by the News of the World. Further information has, of course, since appeared,\" the commission said. \"The commission's position on this, together with other aspects of the case, will be assessed when we return to the matter at the conclusions of the enquiries, which are currently being undertaken, and following the end of any legal proceedings which are brought.\" The PCC added that it cannot act while separate police and parliamentary investigations are being carried out into the new allegations, but that it will revisit the matter once they are complete. The Metropolitan police are reinvestigating the case and have interviewed Sean Hoare, a former News of the World reporter, under caution. The Met have also said they will question Coulson. MPs on the Home Affairs select committee and the high-powered standards and privileges committee are also conducting enquiries. \"We will be monitoring the outcome of the police deliberations, and those of the parliamentary committees and others\" the PCC said. \"At their conclusion we will look further to establish what lessons can be learned for the industry, and the PCC, to prevent this from happening again.\" The New York Times published an article earlier this month which quoted Hoare alleging that Coulson had encouraged him to hack into mobile phones. Hoare later repeated that claim on Radio 4's PM programme. The New York Times also revealed that a News of the World reporter has been suspended for allegedly hacking into mobile phone messages this year. The Guardian subsequently revealed that another ex-News of the World executive, Paul McMullan, is also convinced that Coulson knew about the illegal activities of his reporters. The PCC concedes that the verdict of its November 2009 report into phone hacking at the News of the World, which cleared the paper and its owner News International of misleading the commission, will have to reconsidered in the light of new evidence. In July last year the PCC re-opened an earlier investigation into phone hacking after the Guardian revealed that the paper's publisher, News Group Newspapers, a subsidiary of Rupert Murdoch's News International, had paid more than \u00a31m to three victims of phone hacking in out-of-court settlements. A long list of celebrities and public figures, including Labour MP Chris Bryant, former Met assistant commissioner Brian Paddick, and actors Steve Coogan and Sienna Miller, have began legal action against Scotland Yard after it failed to inform them that their phones may have been hacked into by private investigators employed by the News of the World. One of them, Glenn Mulcaire, was jailed along with the paper's former royal editor, Clive Goodman, in January 2007 for illegally intercepting voicemail messages. Coulson resigned as News of the World editor following Goodman's conviction. \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. \u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "PCC to re-examine News of the World phone-hacking evidence",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "media/pcc",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "PCC has confirmed it will assess its position after police and parliamentary inquiries and any legal action is complete. By James Robinson",
  "id": "media/2010/sep/21/phone-hacking-news-of-the-world",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}