{
  "content": "Mia Farrow is facing a storm of protest after posting the business address of the American dentist who shot Zimbabwe safari icon Cecil the Lion online. Some called for the Rosemary's Baby star, who later removed her tweet, to be banned from the social network. Confusion seems to have erupted after a number of Twitter users wrongly believed that the actor had posted the home address of Minnesota hunter Walter Palmer. In fact, she only ever tweeted the dentist's business address, which has been public knowledge since the identity of Cecil's killer first hit the headlines. A Twitter spokesman directed the Associated Press to an official rule book that vetoes disciplinary action against a user when the information they are tweeting is already in the public domain. \"If information was previously posted or displayed elsewhere on the internet prior to being put on Twitter, it may not be a violation,\" state the company's rules on posting private addresses. That did not stop Twitter moving swiftly into meltdown as rightwing users who feel the controversy over Cecil's killing has been blown out of proportion took the opportunity to take Farrow, who is well know for her support of animal welfare causes, to task. Palmer, who hunts big game in his spare time, is accused of paying $50,000 (\u00a332,000) for the chance to illegally kill Cecil, a protected lion who was known around the continent and the world, in Zimbabwe earlier this month. There have been mounting calls for the prosecution of the American dentist, with two other men involved in the hunt appearing in court in Zimbabwe on Wednesday to face poaching charges. Cecil, a popular attraction among international visitors to Hwange national park, was lured outside the reserve's boundaries by bait before he was killed. Farrow has not yet made any public comment on the Twitter storm surrounding her initial post but she isn't the only star to voice their disapproval of the killing.",
  "title": "Mia Farrow criticised for posting address of Cecil the Lion killer",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "film/film",
    "culture/culture",
    "us-news/mia-farrow",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "environment/cecil-the-lion",
    "environment/environment",
    "environment/wildlife",
    "world/world",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "Anger erupts on Twitter after users assume actor posted hunter Walter Palmer's home address rather than widely-publicised location of his dentistry business ",
  "id": "film/2015/jul/30/mia-farrow-criticised-for-posting-address-of-cecil-the-lion-killer",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}