{
  "content": "The Guardian has won the right to identify Michael Fawcett, one of Prince Charles' former top aides, as the man who has succeeded in obtaining a libel injunction banning publication in a Sunday paper of an article about him. Such injunctions are only exceptionally granted when the court is satisfied that the allegations are untrue and the newspaper does not seek to say that the allegations are true. Mr Fawcett, who says the contents of the banned article would have been untrue and damaging, has now lost an unprecedented legal fight to keep secret his identity as the libel claimant. The Guardian argued before Mr Justice Tugendhat that it had the right, under normal court procedures, to tell the public who was being granted unusual injunctions by the courts, particularly if the interests of the royal family were involved. This newspaper is not publishing the actual allegations. Not only do they differ from the highly coloured rumours about royal affairs which have surfaced recently in the tabloids: but we also have no reason to believe the allegations are true. The saga shows, however, the extraordinary lengths to which both sides are going in the current bitter battle between scandal-hungry tabloids and an increasingly bruised royal household. The Mail on Sunday, which is said to offer up to \u00a3500,000 a time for material from royal servants, told the palace at the weekend that it was preparing to print a sensational 3,000-word article based on an interview and an affidavit from one of them. In the wake of Paul Burrell's recent memoirs exploiting intimate letters from Diana and Prince Philip, the Mail on Sunday clearly found the temptation irresistible. Mr Fawcett went to the courts and last Saturday was granted an injunction by the duty judge, Mr Justice McKinnon, banning publication.",
  "title": "Guardian victory",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/theguardian",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "The Guardian has won the right to identify Michael Fawcett, one of Prince Charles' former top aides, as the man who has succeeded in obtaining a libel injunction banning publication in a Sunday paper of an article about him. ",
  "id": "media/2003/nov/06/theguardian.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}