{
  "content": "Chances are you've seen videos like this in your timeline recently: Or maybe ones like this: The internet is utterly obsessed with this new app called Acapella. It has a simple concept: people record multiple videos, layering them to create harmonies a la Pitch Perfect. It's actually a technique musicians on YouTube have been using for years \u2013 the app just makes it much easier and more accessible. Since Acapella launched six weeks ago, it has grown rapidly. They say they now have seven million monthly active users. As a result, Mixcord, the company behind the app, announced Acapella had raised seed funding from investors to the tune of $1 million. New apps come in and out of fashion all the time. What makes Acapella any different? What's remarkable is the speed with which communities across all the most popular platforms have embraced Acapella. It has been buoyed by Facebook, Twitter and Instagram's efforts with video, as well as a few viral hits. But the beauty of the Acapella app, and potentially why it has become this popular, is the room for comedy. Obviously, it's a place for the truly musically gifted among us to show off their talents: But it's also a place for offbeat and ridiculous, but funny, videos to thrive. Here are some of the app's viral hits in recent weeks: a guy re-enacting one of the final scenes in Titanic. The one where Rose is definitely hogging the floating bit of wood. Then there's the guy re-enacting Justin Bieber's latest using weird instruments like his toilet: And this amazing rendition of the Toys R Us theme tune, just in time for Christmas: We could go on. Mixcord co-founder Daniel Vinh told BuzzFeed the idea for the app came about from one of its other apps, PicPlayPost, which began as a collage maker and now allows users to make video collages. They noticed people were making a cappella songs on PicPlayPost and went from there. So, if you were wondering why your feed has been filling up with a bunch of harmonies: now you know.",
  "title": "The internet is obsessed with this new Acapella app",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/media",
    "technology/instagram",
    "technology/vine",
    "technology/apps"
  ],
  "lead": "An a cappella app by PicPlayPost is the internet's new obsession",
  "id": "technology/2015/nov/27/the-internet-is-obsessed-with-this-new-acapella-app",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}