{
  "content": "Schools are failing to protect sensitive information about young children, such as their home addresses and medical details, according to a survey published today. More than half of primary schools in England are not keeping such information secure, estimated the study for RM School Management. The firm's survey comes after a strong protest from independent schools that the government's proposed national database of all children in England would make their details accessible to 330,000 people and be insecure. And staff at over one third of primary schools are backing up the data by copying it onto computer disks or USB sticks and taking it home at night. Ian Watson, an education data consultant and former government advisor, said the findings were concerning. \"The safety and storage of school data and personal information on children is hugely important and we need to take moves to ensure safety is paramount,\" he said. The research examined a sample of 505 primary schools and found only a third - 34% - secured the back-ups in a safe overnight. Staff at nearly 38% of schools take a copy of the data home, 11% leave it in a locked drawer, and 4% leave it open in the office. Paul Grubb, from RM School Management, said: \"Our research shows that sensitive pupil data is simply not secure enough, which is obviously concerning.\" He added: \"It is clear when we consider the nature of this information - pupil's names, addresses, contact and medical details - that these findings about the back-up and storage of school information represent a significant risk. Whilst schools are in a difficult position, they have to manage these risks.\" Last week, the Independent Schools Council said there was no evidence that the database would meet internationally accepted standards for data security. \"Everyone recognises that databases can be hacked into, and their information bought and sold. Risks of misuse of data by hackers or illegal purchasers are severe,\" said the council. Jonathan Shephard, ISC general secretary, said: \"There is every reason to have a secure, properly functioning database of children identified as being at risk. There is no reason at all for an insecure universal database containing personal details of every child. The proposals will undoubtedly benefit some children, but they will put far more children at risk.\"",
  "title": "Schools data protection practices 'concerning'",
  "lead": "Schools are failing to protect sensitive information about young children, such as their home addresses and medical details, according to a survey published today.",
  "tags": [
    "education/schools",
    "education/education",
    "uk/uk",
    "education/primary-schools",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "education/2006/dec/18/schools.uk",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}