{
  "content": "An American professor recently made the news after students discovered disparaging remarks she had made about them on Facebook. Gloria Gadsden, who taught sociology at Philadephia's East Stroudsburg University, thought her remarks were visible only to her Facebook friends, but due to the configuration of her profile they were also accessible to friends-of-friends \u2013 including some of her students. The ill-judged remarks included: \"does anyone know where to find a very discreet hitman? Yes, it's been that kind of day\" and \"Had a good day today \u2013 didn't even want to kill ONE student!\" What struck me about the coverage of the case was the focus on her \"lack of professionalism\". After all, she was not representing her employer when the remarks were made. Professional conflict around internet use is a subject I'm well-versed in, having experienced everything from management looking up my Twitter page in search of evidence that I was unhappy at work, to being blacklisted from a well-known arts title for apparently \"showing disrespect\" towards it in a blog entry. The latter, which happened early in my career, was particularly baffling and happened after I had applied there for work experience and openly listed the blog on my CV \u2013 would anyone really want to work for nothing somewhere they disrespect? Similarly, a friend and comedy-sketch writer was once turned down for an administration job after being told matter-of-factly that the company had found his comedy blog during an internet search and had considered it \"completely inappropriate\". Incidents such as these continue to raise the matter of whether we should have a reasonable expectation of privacy in some areas of the internet. Nearly 30 years ago, in her book The Managed Heart, Arlie Russell Hochschild wrote about employers in the service industry who sought control over their workers' emotional responses. Thanks to the web, such control is spreading from the workplace into our private lives. The practice of employers running internet searches on employees is now so widespread that employment agencies offer advice on \"online reputation management\". As one such site puts it: \"Even a family recipe for picked gherkins can influence an employer's opinion of you.\" But just because it's possible for employers to unearth background information that once would have been the preserve of the most diligent East German spy, does that mean they should? There is a common belief that people who share information online are deliberately seeking attention, and therefore have it coming. Yet thinking that anyone with an online presence is out for publicity is as boneheaded as the idea that anyone who dresses up nicely is out to have indiscriminate sex. While a few people do write racy or provocative blogs with one eye on a book deal (and therefore should accept the risks inherent to that kind of writing), most bloggers and social networking users are simply looking for a convenient way to share information with friends. And in such cases, is there any difference between sharing your gripes online to, say, in a pub? If I had been a student of Gloria Gadsden, I would have been be upset at her attitude towards me. But unless it visibly reflected in her performance (unfair marking, poor lecture-delivery), I don't think it matters. You may disapprove of what someone does and says outside of work but as long as it's not compromising their job, it is no one's business \u2013 we have the option not to look. \u2022 This article was commissioned after the author contacted us via a You tell us thread. The author usually posts on Cif under the username blondezvous",
  "title": "The bosses who snoop on Facebook | Maxine Frances Roper",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/blogging",
    "money/work-and-careers",
    "uk/uk",
    "careers/careers",
    "careers/sectors-industry-roles",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Maxine Frances Roper: Many employers now search workers' blogs, Facebook pages and Twitter accounts \u2013 but are they any of their business?",
  "id": "commentisfree/2010/mar/24/bosses-snoop-facebook-twitter-blogs",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}