{
  "content": "Sometimes, stories appear that challenge conventional wisdom \u2013 little flecks of fact that turn our perceptions upside down and shake them for the change in their pockets. Today, you'll not be surprised to hear, was one of those days. Yes, despite everything that has ever been written on the subject, it turns out you can make money from content on the internet. This revelation came in the pages of the Daily Mail, as will the final revelations on the day of reckoning. The paper has been investigating the website called \"YouTube\" and discovered that viral videos have been earning their creators actual cash money for their trouble. \"A 58-second clip of two young brothers has helped net their family more than \u00a3100,000 after it was watched 386 million times,\" claimed the Mail. The footage in question was that one where the baby bites his brother's finger and is immediately coaxed into giving a cheeky laugh by his parents, as if the biting had been on purpose and not just the result of newborn inanity. \"The film,\" the Mail went on, \"and other videos Mr Davies-Carr has uploaded, have earned the family more than \u00a3100,000 through a 'partnership' with the website. The company monitors all uploads and if it believes a video will go viral, it contacts the person who posted it.\" Those of you for whom this information came as something of a surprise will surely be laughing to yourself right now. \"\u00a3100,000? In my pocket? When all I need to do is get people to watch a few videos several hundred million times each? Ker-ching!\" Ker-ching, indeed. But, before you go and fill out a hire-purchase order for that diamond-embossed baby Bentley you've always wanted, wait: it might not be easy as all that. Sure, YouTube reckons it has a team that can spot a viral video a mile off. But the likelihood is that this team is merely looking at traffic figures, the number of views per hour in the first six hours, say, and then extrapolating until the numbers started flashing gold. The question that really needs to be answered is a far trickier one: what makes a video go viral in the first place? With apologies to anyone who might be putting the finishing touches to a Phd on the subject, here are a few of my own thoughts on the matter. \u2022 Babies. Get yourself a bloody baby. It doesn't matter if you have to beg, borrow or steal (editors' note: actually, it does matter if you steal), find yourself a child that's so young as to not have a clue what it's doing. Thus, when it does do something you might expect a normal human to do \u2013 bite a finger say, or climb in the toilet \u2013 you can giggle at its precocity and laugh at its gawky expressions. \u2022 Animals. Get a baby, please get a baby. But if you can't, get an animal. A hungry squirrel, say, or a lemur. Anthropomorphism is the general goal, so get an animal that might look a bit like a human doing something vaguely human. Some might just suggest a cat for this role, but in my experience the lovers of cat videos are, without exception, freaks. \u2022 Animal v baby. Self-explanatory. \u2022 A funny thing. People love to laugh. In fact, this is one thing all residents of the global village have in common. The only problem is that we all laugh at completely different things. This is why, if you want your video to go viral, your funny clip should be something that everyone can laugh at \u2013 like an overweight child pretending to be a Jedi, or a drunk Russian. Satirical monologues about the impracticality of the EFSF, not so much. \u2022 Sing badly. On first glance, this may look similar to the previous point, but on closer inspection you see that bad singing videos are not just about laughing at the unfortunate, but also about rating unfortunates against each other in order to work out who the worst singer ever in the history of the world is. The winner of that competition is this woman. The way I see it, get four of these five tips into any video and you'll be swimming in \u00a3\u00a3\u00a3\u00a3. If it turns out that making a substantial living from YouTube is beyond you, never mind; ever thought of investing in mortgage-backed securities?",
  "title": "How to make the perfect viral video | Paul MacInnes",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/youtube",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Paul MacInnes: With the right combination of babies, animals, bad singing and perhaps an overweight Jedi, you're on to a winner",
  "id": "commentisfree/2011/nov/15/perfect-viral-video",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}