{
  "content": "The Clive Goodman case has lifted the veil on the largely hidden world of private investigators paid by newspapers to ferret out information. Evidence presented at the Old Bailey last week suggested Goodman's accomplice, Glenn Mulcaire, was one of many investigators making a living from the press. The revelations follow a report from the information commissioner, who last month published a league table detailing which newspapers paid for more than 3,700 pieces of information from a single investigator, not Mulcaire. Mulcaire - who along with Goodman was jailed last week for illegally hacking into private phone messages - was paid more than \u00a3100,000 a year for providing the News of the World with \"research and information services\". A police search at Mulcaire's address uncovered a contract between the News of the World and Mulcaire's company, running between July 1 2005 and June 30 2006, under which Mulcaire was to be paid \u00a32,019 a week, or \u00a3104,988. There was no suggestion that this payment covered any illegal activities, however. Mulcaire was sentenced for phone-tapping that yielded information for which Goodman, the News of the World's former royal editor, paid him \u00a312,300 in cash, and for five other phone taps he carried out unilaterally and for which he was not paid. In court last week, barristers presented evidence that showed Mulcaire had official and longstanding ties with the News of the World. \"The contract contained clauses which imposed on Glenn Mulcaire a duty of confidentiality and a clause which restrained him from carrying out other work for any other media outlet,\" prosecution barrister David Perry QC told the court. Mulcaire's barrister, Neil Saunders, said his client had worked for the News of the World's owner, News International, as early as 1997, and since setting up his own company in 2001 had worked on a freelance basis \"almost exclusively\" for the company. \"They had employed other research companies at a much greater cost than that subsequently agreed with Mr Mulcaire,\" Mr Saunders said. \"He was subject to an agreement with News International for some five years.\" Mulcaire worked 70-hour weeks and was available to the paper \"all the time\", Mr Saunders said. Some of his work related to his \"background in association football\" and he was obliged to offer stories to the News of the World first, the barrister added. It is believed that Mulcaire's contract would have been signed off by the paper's managing editor, Stuart Kuttner, rather than through parent company News International. A spokeswoman for the News of the World declined to comment on how many investigators the paper has employed in the past or whether it continued to do so. The News of the World featured prominently on the information commissioner's list of papers that had paid one particular detective for information. Nineteen journalists from the paper paid for 182 pieces of information, the commissioner's report showed. That put the News of the World fifth in the league table behind the Daily Mail - 58 of whose journalists were responsible for a total of 952 transactions - the People, the Daily Mirror and the Mail on Sunday. Yesterday, the News of the World said Goodman remained suspended following his sentence and the subsequent resignation of the editor, Andy Coulson. The paper will provide an update on his status with the company once the new editor, Colin Myler, has started. Goodman was suspended when he was arrested in August. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Clive Goodman case sheds light on newspapers' use of private investigators",
  "lead": "Analysis: The Clive Goodman case has lifted the veil on the world of private investigators used by newspapers. By Chris Tryhorn",
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/clive-goodman",
    "media/phone-hacking"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2007/jan/30/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}