{
  "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday April 1 2008 In the article below, we said that the British Board of Film Classification system gave no indication about the contents of computer video games or details of why an age rating had been given. In fact the BBFC provides a sentence indicating content, and therefore the reason for its classification, on the packaging of games and detailed consumer advice on its website. The first national strategy for child internet safety, including a streamlined system for classifying computer video games and codes of practice for social networking sites, will be set out today in a ground-breaking report for government. The six-month study prepared by the child psychologist Dr Tanya Byron, reflects her concern that parents and children are struggling with the impact of the internet and computer games. Her report, treading a delicate line between tighter regulation and better coordinated parental education, will argue that industry and government must do more to provide information to parents on how to set timers on computers, video games and console games. She will propose: \u00b7 New codes of practice to regulate social networking sites, such as Bebo and Facebook, including clear standards on privacy and harmful content; \u00b7 A gold standard for the use of console games, including clear set-up guidance for parents on issues such as pin codes and locks; \u00b7 Better information for parents on how to block children accessing some websites. Byron has been struck that the technology exists to impose timers and filters, but there has been little take-up, knowledge or development of the technology; \u00b7 A new law based on a 2006 Law Commission recommendation making it unlawful to assist suicide on the internet; \u00b7 A national council to implement her strategy, with a fixed timetable for industry experts; a parents' panel and child development experts to implement her recommendations. She will also concede that academic research on the impact of the net on children and their lifestyles is inadequate. Byron, who shot to fame with the BBC series Little Angels, was asked by the prime minister, Gordon Brown, last year to complete the study. She will say the pace of the online revolution has left parents as \"the internet immigrants\" and children as \"the internet natives\", often causing worries for parents struggling to stay in touch with technology. She said yesterday: \"Ironically parents' concerns about risk and safety of their children in the streets and outside has driven a generation of children indoors, where it could be argued they are being exposed to a whole new set of risks.\" The debate about the internet had, however, been hampered by excessive anxiety, she said, and the issue now placed great challenges before government to do more to protect and educate. Her research has shown that parents are most worried by predators and children are most concerned by cyberbullying. Another of her proposals is an overhaul of the video game classification system. \"One of the keys is to look at your children, what age they are and stage of development, and how they are able to make decisions on their own behaviour,\" she said. Classifications are likely to be refined on the basis that what may be deemed appropriate for someone approaching 18 may well not be appropriate for someone of nine or 10. At present most video games are simply licensed for general use or for those aged over 18 years. The new classification system will be clearer, with one set of logos and much more explicit descriptions of content and context on the packaging. She is also likely to propose a clearer law stating when games cannot be sold under that age. The British Board of Film Classification system gives no indication about contents of games or detail of why an age rating has been given. Research published by the IPPR thinktank this week suggested some children were spending 20 hours a week on the internet, almost three times higher than the previous estimates. Although social network sites have community guidelines or acceptable use policies, these are not always properly enforced. On YouTube for example, a search for the term \"happy slap\" delivered 117 videos posted in the last week and \"street fight\" 312 videos. The most popular video on the website Pure Street Fight was called \"Girl Beat Up In Street\" and had been viewed 1,349,046 times. Byron said she wanted these self-generated and hugely profitable sites to be asked to agree codes of practice on harmful content, and for an independent body to evaluate whether the site is meeting the standards it has set for itself.",
  "title": "Parents to be shown how to protect children online",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "society/childprotection",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "politics/education",
    "politics/politics",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/web20",
    "society/children",
    "education/education",
    "technology/politics",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "New rules to protect children on the internet have been set out in a government report along with new codes of practice for social network sites and video games. By Patrick Wintour",
  "id": "technology/2008/mar/27/privacy.childprotection",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}