{
  "content": "David Berry was puzzled when his computer began throwing strange, lingering popup notices at him demanding payment to a company called Platte Media. Five days later, there was a \"notification\" demanding \u00a329.99. \"The Platte representative was ill-mannered, totally ignored any suggestion that the subscription was unsolicited, and as a matter of expediency I coughed up \u00a329.99,\" he says. Intending to take the matter further, he asked for a VAT receipt. But when the receipt arrived without a VAT number, he telephoned again. \"I was informed that any payment made to Platte Media was to Platte International in the British Virgin Islands and as such was not subject to VAT,\" David says. Popup puzzle Meanwhile Malcolm, who prefers not to give his surname, had a different puzzle: a letter from Platte Media sent to his address threatening action at the small claims court for non-payment. What he couldn't figure out was: how had the company got his address? Platte International - formerly known as Micro Bill Systems, or MBS - has an unusual business model. People go to websites that use its software. To view the site, they click an agreement that offers a free trial, and download software to their (Windows) PC. If you don't actively end the trial and don't pay the subscription, you'll get a series of popup windows that make it harder and harder to use your machine. If you then call Platte, it will help you disable the popups. Platte International Ltd has previously garnered attention from this newspaper and BBC Radio's You &amp; Yours programme for having stills from mainstream films on a website (Porn billing firm lures customers with promises of Hollywood movies, June 26) when it was offering thousands of pornographic films and film trailers. But the mysteries around the company won't go away. The latest: its apparent ability to obtain personal details about customers, and a trickier one about whether - or where - it is registered for VAT. Platte's signup process for its free three-day trial to watch pornographic films is unmistakable thanks to an undertaking with the Office of Fair Trading. Despite this, some consumers claim only to see a popup bill demanding \u00a329.99 for a 30-day subscription - though it's possible that it's because they won't admit signing up on the family PC, as has happened in a number of cases. For some who don't pay, Platte sends letters threatening legal action at the small claims court. This includes a page of \"pre submission\" information which could, to the unwary, appear to come from \"Issuing Court Northampton County Court\" - but which doesn't. Michelle, who has no interest in pornography, received letters from Platte just addressed to \"the computer owner\". \"I phoned the court, who said that because there was no claim number attached, it wasn't valid, but asked me to send the information in so they could have sight of it.\" The IP address quoted by Platte does not match Michelle's ISP and, strangely, she hasn't seen any popup bills, either. Those ignoring the popups have also received what one describes as a \"sham county court notice\". Several people have suggested that Platte uses IP addresses to ask internet service providers, because when the software installs it does not demand any personal details. The Information Commissioner's office says: \"Unless they are required by law or by a court order, it would be for the internet service provider to determine whether or not it is lawful to provide another company with the names and addresses of consumers. If we receive complaints about this issue we will, of course, investigate.\" Stanly Hiwat, the chief executive officer of Platte International Ltd, told us by email that the only situation where Platte would obtain an individual's address is \"where a court has granted a Norwich Pharmacal Order [a specific legal device] requiring the ISP to disclose it\". He said: \"Whilst this option is available to us we have not to date had to obtain such an order. All address information that we use is information provided to us directly by the customer themselves.\" Over the threshold? We took Malcolm's IP address to his ISP, TalkTalk, for comment. \"As far as we are aware, we have not revealed this customer's details - or any customers' details - to Platte. It is not TalkTalk's policy to do this except in the most serious circumstances, for instance when we have been asked to cooperate with the police,\" says the ISP. But the boot might be on the other foot after David's experience over the missing VAT number. We asked HM Revenue and Customs whether a company registered overseas, but providing a service to a customer in the UK, would be exempt from VAT. Not so, said HMRC: non-EU suppliers providing \"electronically supplied services to UK consumers\" were required to register for VAT if the VAT threshold is exceeded. So has Platte exceeded the VAT threshold, of \u00a367,000 in a year? It seems remarkable if it hasn't. Ashley Bateup, chief executive officer of the UK-registered Platte International Ltd, which operates in Leeds, says the UK managed services company is registered for VAT, but he \"cannot comment on any other company\". Platte has also said its customer contracts are \"with Platte International BVI\". Hiwat, of Platte International Ltd, which is registered in the British Virgin Islands - although he is in Brazil - also didn't answer any detailed questions about VAT. \"Truth remains, however, that Platte International Ltd BVI insists on operating a healthy business model that does not antagonise its customers, nor the institutions that protect them, nor do we willingly seek to offend applicable laws and business practices,\" he said in an email. Vital statistics Platte claims that only 20% of customers cancel before the end of the trial, and adds: \"Contacts to Trading Standards from our customers represented less than 0.2% of total downloads by customers in the previous month.\" That gives us some help. West Yorkshire Trading Standards (where Platte is based in the UK) says it has so far received 693 complaints and/or inquiries nationally about Platte, with 129 of those in September and 81 in August. That suggests between 40,500 and 64,500 downloads per month, and that 80% of those signed up - which, at \u00a329.99 each comes to between \u00a3971,676 and \u00a31.5m of revenues each month. In fact, just 2,000 subscriptions each month is enough to exceed the limit, assuming all the subscriptions come from the UK and EU, which would all attract VAT. Prevx, an internet security company, monitors Platte's activities and says that \"Platte downloads/installs may easily reach 50,000 a month\". Mike Bailey, of accountancy firm PricewaterhouseCoopers, says that enforcing VAT registration for non-EU companies supplying electronic services is a real problem. It's not easy to find out which non-EU companies should have registered or their income. \"How would you possibly be able to track that?\" he asks. But HMRC is more determined. \"If HMRC becomes aware that an overseas trader is liable to register in the UK, it can compulsorily register them and issue an assessment of any tax due. If appropriate, a civil evasion or belated notification penalty can also be issued.\" So is everyone happy with Platte? The company claims \"very satisfied customers who sign up month after month and appreciate the security our payment options offer\". Despite this, forums like mbsvictims.org.uk show that reports of unexplained downloads persist. But it may be that all those satisfied customers will create a problem of their own for the company. Ironically, its success could be Platte's biggest headache. Platte in numbers 67,000 Threshold in pounds at which a business must register for VAT 50,000 Estimated monthly level of downloads and installation of Platte software 20% Percentage of customers Platte says cancel before the end of the trial period",
  "title": "Popups company Platte faces VAT investigation",
  "lead": "HMRC may investigate Platte, internet popups operator, over non-payment of VAT",
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/digitalvideo",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/software",
    "technology/computing",
    "money/money",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy",
    "politics/hmrc"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2008/oct/09/news.digitalvideo",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}