{
  "content": "Though the first music-sharing blogs date from the late 90s, 2012 will mark a decade of successful MP3 blogging \u2013 early hits Stereogum and Fluxblog both celebrate their birthdays this year. Even if music blogs haven't replaced the traditional tastemakers they challenged, they're now utterly entwined with music distribution and criticism \u2013 particularly when it comes to getting new artists heard. The Guardian's favourite two tracks of 2011, by Lana Del Rey and Azealia Banks, were both blogger crushes. Blogging is the most established part of a more far-reaching realignment of fandom. In an age where music circulates in bulk, to be a fan is also to be a distributor \u2013 fandom and sharing are synonymous. Bloggers find new music first and pass it on. Critics compile end-of-year lists, but always with a Spotify playlist attached. In 2011, Facebook furthered the idea that all desires should be public by introducing \"frictionless sharing\", where the gap between listening and broadcasting narrows to zero and everything we hear can become part of our public data-flow. This shift from fan to distributor is natural. Fans have always spread the word about their favourite music \u2013 now they spread the music, too. And despite gloomy predictions of the death of pop writing in an MP3 age, the word still matters: since attention is scarce, the fan's passion and knowledge will always be crucial. Even so, it's heartening that over the last couple of years a second strain of music blogging has thrived \u2013 where sharing music isn't as important as sharing stories. The facilitator for this has been blogging platform and social network Tumblr \u2013 beloved of teens, media outlets and smut peddlers for its easy image-posting and rapid turnover of content. Tumblr has its share of MP3 blogs but it's also home to some of today's most original, personal and funniest music-writing. Jude Rogers and Ian Wade's My Band T-Shirt blog won a Record of the Day award in November, and their approach shows off Tumblr's virtues beautifully: it's simply people sending in photos of their T-Shirts and the stories behind them, but that format lets the blog switch tone from touching to sentimental to hilariously caustic, all without ever sharing a note of actual music. Craig Hamilton's Rock N Roll Tedium, meanwhile, posts tiny vignettes (again, mostly sent in by readers) from the intersection of pop and the real world \u2013 stories of borrowing things from once-famous neighbours and making dire small talk with pop C-listers in the supermarket. These blogs work in the way many successful Tumblrs on any subject work: they have an idea which catches people's imagination enough that they want to join in. The same formula applies for sites as disparate as the Kitten Covers Tumblr \u2013 where album sleeves and small cats joyfully meet \u2013 and Hendrik Jasnoch's mighty One Week One Band, where a fan pours their adoration for a single artist into a week of detailed posts. One Week One Band does share music, but it's there to mesh with the writing and passion. What makes Tumblr so good for this? The networkedness of it gives new ideas the chance to find an audience and encourages collaboration, and for individual bloggers creates some of the intimacy of old print fanzine networks, where you knew a lot of your audience. But more importantly, Tumblr thrives on anonymity and persona building, unlike the \"real names\" culture of Facebook or Google+. For me, that's a better fit with loving music. On Facebook, the music you listen to flows unobtrusively into the rest your life. But Facebook has no language for how music really intersects with people's lives \u2013 transforming them, or simply existing in surreal counterpoint. A story about an old, cracked, metal T-Shirt says more about pop than an anonymous playlist, which is why the collaborative future of music blogging looks as bright as its tastemaking past.",
  "title": "Why blogging strikes a chord on Tumblr",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "music/popandrock",
    "music/music",
    "music/rap",
    "music/indie",
    "music/lana-del-rey",
    "technology/spotify",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/google-plus",
    "technology/tumblr"
  ],
  "lead": "Tom Ewing: It's heartening that with Tumblr a strain of music blogging has thrived - where sharing music isn't as important as sharing stories",
  "id": "music/musicblog/2012/jan/05/tom-ewing-tumblr-music-blogs",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}