{
  "content": "One of the most over-rated and over-hyped jobs in the digital music industry has finally been filled: After weeks and months of drib-drab leaks where it felt like negotiating the contract of the MySpace Music head was more complex and important than renewing the contract for Peter Chernin, MTV executive Courtney Holt has officially been named as president of MySpace Music. Holt, who previously worked at MTV Networks (NYSE: VIA) as EVP of digital music for the Music &amp; Logo Group, was considered the leading candidate for the past several weeks. A few months ago we mentioned that former MTV exec Andy Schuon and former Facebook chief revenue officer Owen Van Natta were previously among the likeliest to be hired for the spot, which MySpace Music had been looking to fill since late spring. Holt will now head up MySpace's new joint venture with the four major record labels, coordinating internal strategy at MySpace with executives at Universal, Sony, Warner and EMI. Beginning his new gig January 5, he'll also work with MySpace co-founder and CEO Chris DeWolfe. Before his stint at MTV, Holt was SVP of new media at Interscope Geffen A&amp;M. Release. Now comes the hard part: the triple whammy of trying to monetize a generalist social network, in the beleaguered music industry, in this calamity of an economy. No pressure, Courtney\u2026 Update: The next guessing game: who will succeed Holt at MTVN or will that role even be filled? It could be time for another round of MTV Musical Chairs. Network president Van Toffler told his staff via e-mail that he and Holt \"are working on the transition plan and I will be communicating more details very soon.\" TechCrunch has the memo. From paidContent: \u2022 Haven't ordered your holiday Kindle yet? Never mind \u2022 Earnings: Tivo swings to Q3 profit on Echostar suit; Q4 loss expected to widen \u2022 Reg changes shift flow of information on fundings, public companies \u2022 Microsoft's personal reboot: web-centric, but beyond \"the cloud\" \u2022 Major label milestone: Atlantic Records digital sales outpace CDs \u2022 Bono is jumping into the digital music business From paidContent:UK: \u2022 Earnings: Future web growth slows in '08, print ad sales holding up \u2022 Nokia's first touchscreen: it's no iPhone, it's more sociable \u2022 TVCatchup returns; PVR site reborn as 'legal' live TV streamer \u2022 Industry Moves: Gurgle's new parents, Guardian mobile, Reuters editor \u2022 Broadband Content Bits: Kirill for xBox, AOL rates beauties, MusicBrainz, Berlusconi in premiere \u2022 German library fining bloggers for refusing digital archive inclusion",
  "title": "Industry Moves: MTV exec Courtney Holt named as head of MySpace Music, finally",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/myspace",
    "technology/digital-music-and-audio",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "lead": "One of the most over-rated and over-hyped jobs in the digital music industry has finally been filled: After weeks and months of drib-drab leaks where it felt like negotiating the contract of the MySpace Music head was more complex and important than renewing the contract for Peter Chernin, MTV executive Courtney Holt has officially been named as president of MySpace Music",
  "id": "media/pda/2008/nov/26/myspace-digitalmusic",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}