{
  "content": "Zynga likes casual games: the social games publisher's mobile growth has been fuelled by the popularity of Words With Friends and related titles. It's much less keen to be associated with casual sex, however. The company is suing fellow US firm Bang With Friends, which makes an app for Facebook and smartphones claiming to be \"the anonymous, simple, fun way to find friends who are down for the night\". According to Bloomberg, Zynga's lawsuit claims that the startup \"selected the name 'Bang With Friends' for its casual sex matchmaking app with Zynga's game trademarks fully in mind\" when it launched in January 2013 as a Facebook-connected website. It has since rolled out iPhone and Android apps, with chief executive Colin Hodge claiming in June that Bang With Friends had signed up 1.1m users in its first five months, with \"over 200,000 successful matches\". Zynga isn't the first dispute for the startup over the nature of its business. Within days of the release of its iPhone app, Apple had removed it from its App Store, and it has yet to return. Zynga is seeking a court order to ban Bang With Friends from using its name for any social networking apps in the US, and is also demanding unspecified damages according to Bloomberg. The app works by getting people to sign in using their Facebook IDs, then pick the friends who they'd like to become friends-with-benefits. If any of those friends have registered and reciprocated, both parties are alerted to the fact and left to make their own arrangements. Its promises of privacy were undermined in May when The Daily Dot discovered a link to show any Facebook user which of their friends were registered with Bang With Friends, although not who they had picked. The link still works two months later. Zynga is understandably sensitive about one of its flagship mobile brands, With Friends, being associated with a casual-sex dating app. The publisher is refocusing its business around mobile gaming, which accounted for 27% of its bookings in the second quarter of 2013 as the company's games attracted 57m monthly active mobile users. The With Friends games \u2013 including Words, Scramble, Matching, Gems, Chess, Hanging and newest addition Running With Friends \u2013 remain an important part of that strategy. Bang With Friends has yet to comment on the lawsuit, but as a startup thought to have raised $1m of seed funding so far, the company will be wary of a lengthy legal battle with a richer firm like Zynga.",
  "title": "Zynga sues Bang With Friends 'casual sex' app for trademark infringement",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/zynga",
    "technology/apps",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/smartphones",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/games",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "lead": "Words With Friends good but one-night stands with them bad for social games publisher's brands, claims court filing. By Stuart Dredge",
  "id": "technology/appsblog/2013/jul/31/zynga-sues-bang-with-friends-app",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}