{
  "content": "For a company that is still an internet startup, Facebook takes itself very, very seriously. And among all of the serious subjects it takes very seriously, possibly the most serious if privacy. After all, the company's got a chief privacy officer, and a growing team of lobbyists looking to secure the company's privacy agenda with governments. With all that in mind, then, the changes to Facebook privacy settings announced by the site today could be important: they are trying to fix the fact that the controls, as Chris Kelly (aforementioned chief privacy officer) said, not \"as clean as one would like\". That's an understatement: Facebook's privacy settings are spread out across lots of different pages and presented in lots of different ways - ways that are largely confusing and, I'd imagine, unusable for many ordinary people. As a result, the company wants to simplify what's going on. Controls will be more obvious, more centralised and explain clearly what they do. Among the biggest changes that come out of this, though, is the decision to kill off local networks - the geographic groups that let you associate yourself with a town or city like London, Manchester or Norwich. In the early days of Facebook, these were often the most vibrant and active parts of the site... but they appear to have worn out their welcome. Why? Facebooker Leah Perlman said that only around 50% of people joined local networks anyway - and many of them didn't understand the way information was shared with other members (who are, most likely, strangers). Of course, that doesn't take into account that Facebook has made these networks increasingly difficult to monitor over time: I recently tried to change my network and the process was horribly convoluted and unclear. But is closing down networks something people will be happy with? Fifty percent of users don't use them - which means that the other 50% do. Not that networks themselves have disappeared entirely - if you have one that requires verification, such as a school or business - that will remain intact. But the days of chatting with everyone in your town are numbered. Simplification of privacy controls can only be a good thing for people who use these services. But they are also an important part of Facebook's recognition that complexity isn't better. One irony of all this, of course, is that the people who would most benefit from the more complicated tools are usually the least likely to use them - so at least the site is no longer working against itself.",
  "title": "Facebook tweaks privacy settings: bye bye local networks",
  "lead": "Facebook is simplifying its complicated privacy controls - and killing off networks for cities like London and Manchester as a result",
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/blog/2009/jul/01/facebook-privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}