{
  "content": "A key member of Google's cloud application team has been poached by ephemeral messaging start-up Snapchat. While he worked as an engineering director at the search firm, Peter Magnusson ran the Google App Engine project, which provides a suite of tools that lets developers build and run apps in the cloud. Snapchat, where Magnusson will be a vice president of engineering, is one of Google App Engine's largest customers. According to Snapchat's co-founder Bobby Murphy, the company doesn't plan to drop Google, but will be investing in its own technology on to of the outsourced services. \"We'll continue to build out infrastructure to support our unique needs, and we'll do that in part by leveraging as much of what Google and other service providers offer,\" Murphy told the Wall Street Journal. But the paper initially mis-reported that Murphy had told them that part of Magnusson's new job would \"be building technology infrastructure in-house so that the company can begin to lessen its reliance on partners like Google.\" That led Magnusson to leave an angry comment on the story, saying that it was \"(a) not what Bobby said, (b) not really a focus of my job either. Thx WSJ for pissing off all my old Google friends. \"A more correct statement is that we'll continuously evaluate alternatives, and likely over time develop more infrastructure ourselves, in particular in specialized areas of our apps,\" he added. \"Google is a great partner,\" Magnusson added in , \"and the success of Snapchat would simply not have been possible without Google Cloud, and we expect to work closely together. Period.\" Alongside Magnusson, Snapchat is bulking up its development team, with Murphy confirming plans to add up to 50 engineers to the company's current lot of 15 developers. In September, the company poached Timothy Sehn, an Amazon engineering director, and in December it nabbed Emily White, the executive responsible for bringing ads to Instagram, from Facebook to become Snapchat's chief operating officer.",
  "title": "Snapchat poaches senior Google cloud engineer Peter Magnusson",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/snapchat",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/apps",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "The messaging service is bulking up its development team, with plans to add up to 50 engineers to the company's 15 developers. By Alex Hern",
  "id": "technology/2014/feb/20/snapchat-google-cloud-engineer-peter-magnusson",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}