{
  "content": "If you walk past a school at playtime you can usually pick out the child that is being bullied. When I was at school, that child would get home every evening and find a safe haven from the insults. But things are changing, and online bullying is becoming an epidemic that not only floods primary schools but also universities and workplaces. While online interaction may have brought us closer, it also provides the perfect opportunity for bullying to escalate in a way that it is unlikely to in a face-to-face confrontation. I get excited every time I refresh Twitter and find I have one more follower. I can only imagine how it must feel to gain 400 in a matter of hours. Unfortunately, blogger Blair On A Budget had to put up with a stream of abuse for days before arriving at this level of notoriety. After a moment of feminist outrage, Blair tweeted her reaction to last week's issue of More! magazine, which included an \"inside men's minds\" special. Blair's tweets were potentially defamatory and More! magazine could have demanded she delete them or risk the threat of a lawsuit. But they didn't. Instead, they retweeted her insults, cashing in on the free publicity. Almost instantly, a tirade of indignant readers updated their status with vicious remarks claiming Blair was a \"twat\", a \"silly cow\" and should \"calm down and buy a book\". Although it seems that the outcome was positive for Blair, who used the situation to astutely publicise her blog, I know that sitting in your room watching comments towards you move further from informative and closer to bullying is not a pleasant experience. Yet it is becoming the kind of ordeal that an increasing number of people suffer. I, like the majority of journalism students, write a blog. On one occasion, I published a post, a single paragraph of which arguably implied that many students nowadays seem to be lacking passion and interest in their chosen subject. Some interesting feedback prompted me to post a link to the article on Facebook, in an effort to discover the opinions of my peers. In contrast to what I was expecting, those who replied did not use the opportunity to fiercely defend their active interest in journalism. Instead, I was bombarded with comments from a group of people on my course that all shared an unnecessarily defensive and aggressive theme: \"You are arrogant and big-headed, and we don't like you\". My little 13-word Facebook link generated more than double the comments of any of my previous updates and a dozen more than the original blog post. It was not the insults that struck me as odd. Neither was it the cliquey, bullying nature of the vicious vendetta, or the apparent disregard for the veracity of facts from self-proclaimed \"journalists\". The most shocking aspect of the ordeal was that I arrived at my lecture the following day, expecting a discussion or explanation of some kind \u2013 we are all adults, after all. And yet my colleagues, who had spent the previous day furiously typing about my patronising and offensive behaviour, had not a word to say in person. I am sure that the loyal More! readers who happily attacked Blair for expressing her opinion would not be so quick to insult if they had to do so to her face, and not just her Twitter profile. The nature of online communication allows one to hide behind a screen, to play a character, have fun with the facelessness of what is written. But if adults are very often indulging in this kind of childish and abusive behaviour, I can only imagine what could go on in places such as secondary schools. If a vulnerable and self-conscious 13-year-old were to become the target of even less restrained abuse it could create a terrible situation that may never have arisen in a face-to-face confrontation. I am a defender of social networks, chatrooms, forums and blogs. I am convinced that they encourage interaction and communication, and that online communities are of great benefit to a democratic society. However, I have realised that there exists within these communities the potential to abuse our privileges. Users can remain relatively anonymous in order to deceive, defame, insult, bully, and \u2013 in extreme circumstances \u2013 commit violent and deplorable crimes against innocent users. Perhaps we need to decide just how far we want an online community to bleed into our real, flesh-and-blood daily lives.",
  "title": "When online privileges are abused | Sirena Bergman",
  "lead": "Sirena Bergman: Social networking encourages interaction, but that can include the kind of bullying behaviour people wouldn't display offline",
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "society/society"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2010/jun/24/social-networking-bullying-behaviour",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}