{
  "content": "On Friday morning, I woke up as my usual French self. Then, from under the duvet, I reached for my smartphone and learned from Twitter that the French edition of Closer magazine had published pictures purportedly revealing an affair between President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande and the actress Julie Gayet. There had been rumours for months, as there inevitably are in the higher echelons of power. Gossip is like the background noise of a Parisian cafe: the little music of our lives, familiar and inconsequential. At 7.18am, an angry Hollande made a statement to the news agency AFP deploring the attack on his privacy and declaring he might seek legal action. Good for him, I thought. His office stressed that this was the citizen, not the president, speaking. End of story. I shrugged my shoulders and thought little more about it, much more concerned by the legal wrangles of the French interior minister, Manuel Valls, who is trying to ban the comedian Dieudonn\u00e9 from performing his antisemitic routine in theatres and clubs around France. For the past three weeks, France has been facing one relentless question: does freedom of speech stop where incitement to hatred begins? Gallivanting was definitely not on our minds that Friday morning. An hour later, at the newsstand, I bought my usual hefty pile of French and international newspapers, and didn't even glance at Closer. Isn't it always the same: salacious and badly written stories with ugly pictures? Gossip is not news. This was to prove a difficult stance to maintain. I was barely into my third espresso when I started receiving calls and emails asking me to comment. No, surely nobody was interested \u2013 or, to be really French about it, nobody should be interested. I couldn't help noticing the painful truth that the world media seems interested in France only when it complies with the stereotypes and does what is expected of it: promiscuity, grandstanding in foreign policy, sex on the big screen, economic dirigisme, secular authoritarianism and xenophobia. I didn't have much time to lament the power of cliches. An article on Closer's revelations and Hollande's dalliance quickly appeared on the BBC website and immediately shot to most-read item on the site. Things were getting serious: calls poured in from Washington, New York, London, Doha, Brussels. I was being too French about it, it seems; it was high time I started looking at this through British eyes. I went out to buy Closer. It was a revelation \u2013 and I am not talking about Hollande's alleged affair. I belong to the generation that grew up under Mitterrand: a time when nobody would have dared to publish images showing the president going to a rendezvous and leaving the morning after. Well, let me rephrase: nobody would have dreamed of spending a whole night hiding outside a building to take such pictures. I grew up in a country where the president embodied not just the state but also the nation. He may be a man, but he is also an institution. He is France \u2013 in other words, he is me and I am him. We may dislike the human being; we inevitably revere the symbol. Hence the deference \u2013 or at the very least, the inherent respect \u2013 accorded any French president by his compatriots. That was then. Times have changed. Gossip magazines of the Closer kind, which did not exist in the Mitterrand era, are now a thriving force, with millions of readers. Trivia is of the essence. Every week, those publications put aside the money for the fines they will probably have to pay for breaching France's strict privacy laws. Tellingly, over the past 20 years, French judges have become less severe and the fines have got smaller. Revealing celebrities' intimacies has become \"affordable\", almost a fact of life. And politicians have had to learn that the hard way. The best ally of France's gossip press in recent years has been a former president. In a clear break with tradition, the taboo-busting Nicolas Sarkozy ventured to stage his private life for political gain. He shamelessly used his ex-wife Cecilia and his new flame, Carla Bruni \u2013 whom he subsequently married after a few months of intense and overexposed courtship \u2013 as publicity props. Talk about a culture shock. We had to close our eyes whenever we saw them on television: Nicolas with Carla in tow and her coyness \u00e0 la Bambi. Images of their now-famous amorous escape to the pyramids of Egypt were simply too embarrassing to watch. Hollande obviously belongs to the old order of discretion, and would feel extremely uncomfortable in this new environment \u2013 as, probably, would a big chunk of the French electorate. While we may have gone a long way towards the 24-hour voyeuristic society that Britain and the US enjoy (or suffer from), the overall culture in France is still one that values privacy highly. As the rightwing politician Marine Le Pen declared, a couple of hours after Closer's revelations: \"Everybody is entitled to their privacy and so is the president, providing this doesn't cost a penny to the taxpayer.\" Reading Closer's report on Hollande's alleged affair is an education. Instead of being salacious, the tone of the article is more reminiscent of Barbara Cartland. There is talk of \"passion\", \"stolen nights\", \"cooing\" and \"being in love\". A picture of Hollande in a crash helmet that looks slightly awry carries a caption that reads: \"Fran\u00e7ois is so in love, he has forgotten to secure his helmet properly.\" This is less journalism than lowbrow romantic fiction. Seven pages of pictures show the sequence of events that is supposed to prove the affair: Gayet arrives at a flat belonging to friends, near the Elys\u00e9e palace, with a smile on her face. Half an hour later, the president's bodyguard comes in, allegedly to check the premises, and, a few minutes later, here comes a stout-looking man in a dark suit and a helmet, driven by a chauffeur on a three-wheeled scooter. The morning after, the same bodyguard comes in at 8am with a bag full of croissants. I am now looking at this entirely through British eyes, and I suddenly understand why the world media has flocked to Paris. Imagine the head of state of the world's fifth biggest economy scooting through the streets of Paris at night to a rendezvous, and being delivered breakfast at 8am by his bodyguard. So simple, so organic, so carefree, so natural. And so terribly Parisian. Surely, the highest form of civilisation, and the envy of the world. What other head of state could actually do the same? None. And no other head of state could survive the revelation totally unscathed. I think it is safe to say that this will not prove to be Hollande's political swansong. If a majority of the French people think it is a distraction the country doesn't need at a time of rising unemployment and social discontent, the affair won't affect his ratings \u2013 which are currently so low they could hardly sink further. It could even boost his image abroad. I simply hope for the country that the lovers quickly find another love nest, so that the president can get on with the work of reforming France.",
  "title": "Francois Hollande, Julie Gayet \u2026 and a very British scandal about a very French affair",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/francois-hollande",
    "media/privacy",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/france",
    "media/media",
    "lifeandstyle/celebrity",
    "media/consumer-magazines",
    "media/magazines",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "Once, news of a scandal at the Elys\u00e9e palace might never have made the papers. Now, France's tradition of privacy and discretion is under pressure from the global celebrity media",
  "id": "world/2014/jan/12/hollande-gayet-british-scandal-french-affair",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}