{
  "content": "I absent-mindedly left my purse on the sales counter of our local TK Maxx while shopping in early January. When I discovered it was missing I cancelled my plastic cards. Three days later, I went around the shops to see if it had been found. An assistant at TK Maxx told me that \"due to the Data Protection Act\" my purse had been shredded into the store's confidential waste. It contained items of value, including sales receipts needed to return goods, my driving licence, loyalty cards, library cards and postage stamps. The salesperson who found my purse opened it on her own and said that there was no phone contact visible. But my driving licence had my home address on. This has caused me significant distress. GM, Stockport The Information Commissioner's Office, which is responsible for data protection, despairs at stories like this. Even if your purse's contents had been within its ambit, this is a total misunderstanding of data protection. Other stores seem to have better systems, including contacting banks and looking for addresses and phone numbers before sealing the item, which is then locked into a safe with two staff members signing for this. There is a legal requirement that driving licences which are found be returned to the DVLA, not destroyed. TK Maxx initially apologised to you, conceding the \"situation could have been handled differently\". It admitted that future incidents like this will be treated more sympathetically, and the firm offered you a \u00a350 gift voucher. But having suffered humiliation when you were told your purse had been destroyed, you had no intention of returning to shop there. And \u00a350 failed to reflect the costs you now have to incur: replacing your driving licence; several books of stamps; not being able to return unwanted items; lost loyalty cards; a family photo that it will be difficult to replace; plus the cost of the purse itself, eventually returned to you ripped. As far as you know, there were no banknotes. You rejected the voucher. Guardian Money argued that you should not be out of pocket and should be recompensed for the time it will take to replace everything. TK Maxx has now agreed, and has sent you a cheque for \u00a3180 plus a \u00a340 donation to a charity of your choice. Tony Levene is a guest contributor. We welcome letters but cannot answer individually. Email us at consumer.champions@theguardian.com or write to Bachelor &amp; Brignall, Money, the Guardian, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. Please include a daytime phone number",
  "title": "TK Maxx shredded my purse \u2013 and claimed data protection",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "money/consumer-affairs",
    "money/consumer-rights-money",
    "money/money",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "I accidentally left my purse at TK Maxx, now I have no driving licence, cards, stamps, receipts or a family photo",
  "id": "money/2013/apr/08/tkmaxx-shredded-purse",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}