{
  "content": "In 2003, Rebekah Wade told a select committee that newspapers paid the police for information. For good order, Andy Coulson added that they would only pay the police if it was in the public interest to do so. No one on the committee batted an eyelid. The police did not burst in and arrest everyone. Now, journalists who were once feted by their proprietors for the tactics that won them \"scoop of the year\" are being handed over to the police in dawn raids. Party leaders accuse one another of meeting Rupert Murdoch more than they themselves did. People are aghast at the idea that the police might have employed someone who once worked for a newspaper, and those journalists left standing sheepishly report the arrest of colleagues in matter-of-fact tones. We are in this mess because there has been a complete lack of clarity and consistency about press standards and what constitutes \"the public interest\". The worst excesses of the press have stemmed from the fact that the public interest test has been too elastic and, all too often, has meant what newspaper editors wanted it to mean. The scandal of phone hacking and the widespread use by most national newspapers of an illegal market in personal information is a direct consequence of the absence of a credible public interest test. Newspaper proprietors have stubbornly refused to countenance any move which might have protected journalism by bringing clarity to the law surrounding privacy, and politicians have never found the right time to incur their wrath by proposing change. Journalism has suffered as a result. For those who really believe in enhancing the status of journalism, there are three things that must be done. First, if journalism is to operate in the public interest, then it needs a credible public interest test. This will not only protect society but also journalists by giving them a valid defence in law for crossing boundaries to expose genuine wrongdoing or corruption. It is now essential to establish a single standard for the public interest test that applies equally to both the press and the broadcast media and that is independently and consistently enforced. Second, we need clarity and consistency when it comes to privacy law. The UK already has a privacy statute set out in the Human Rights Act 1998. The issue is whether it could be improved to add clarity and give clearer definition to the balance between the right to privacy and the right to freedom of expression. Currently, the scope for judicial interpretation is so broad that the outcome of a given case is heavily dependent on which judge presides over it. Advocates of the status quo constitute an unlikely alliance of newspaper proprietors who pay lip service to privacy, but don't really believe in it and lawyers who do believe in privacy but doubt the ability of an elected parliament to deliver it. Neither side is being honest with the other. It is time for parliament to do its job and set out the balance between privacy and freedom of expression, however contentious and difficult this might be. We should not hide behind judges. Finally, we need a new independent process for upholding press standards. I think we should divide the task into two categories: unregulated standards (such as accuracy) and regulated standards (such as privacy). We should have enhanced self-regulation when it comes to resolving disputes around accuracy or on general standards of journalism. But, alongside that, we should establish a separate, more formal tribunal system that would focus narrowly on those cases where a potential breach of the law had taken place and where an independent assessment of the public interest test was required. It would mean that an inadvertent error by an overstretched local newspaper would be dealt with in a light-touch way, but someone who had had their phone hacked by a national newspaper would have access to a more formal tribunal process. This would ensure the press remained free, but also obeyed the law. Journalism has a crucial role in democratic society. At its best, it challenges the powerful, tests prevailing assumptions, gives voice to a plurality of competing views and provides a forum for national discussion on topical and important issues. But those who own the press have not always been good custodians of journalism and have often elevated the commercial interests of papers above the interests of society. We have an opportunity to change that now and should not waste it. \u2022 The writer is the Conservative MP for Camborne, Redruth and Hayle, and was David Cameron's press secretary, 2005 to 2007. He was one of several Conservatives arguing, unsuccessfully, that parliament's privacy and injunctions committee should recommend the creation of a privacy statute",
  "title": "A privacy law is vital for the future of the British media",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "law/law",
    "media/medialaw"
  ],
  "lead": "George Eustice: Journalism should seize this chance to end its bad habits and uphold new standards",
  "id": "media/2012/apr/08/privacy-law-vital-media-future",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}