{
  "content": "All those people who have seen their jobs outsourced to call centres abroad must be rubbing their hands in glee at the Sun's front page exclusive this week, detailing how - for as little as \u00a33 - it bought hundreds of British names and banking details from crooks in Indian call centres. To some people, there will be vague undertones of racism. After all, why should Indian call centre workers be any more crooked than those in Britain? But the ease with which personal details can be bought does raise legitimate concerns, and experts say data theft from overseas call centres has been a time bomb waiting to go off. The Lloyds TSB Group Union, which represents 45,000 of the bank's staff, says it has been highlighting concerns about the potential risks of offshore call centres for some time. It asks: \"The EU recognises that India does not meet the same rigorous standards of data security as European countries, so why cannot customers insist on not having their personal information transferred to India?\" The Financial Services Authority does not agree. It said this week that Indian call centres pose no greater risk to security than ones in the UK. It says its research has found that security in Indian call centres is very good and in some cases more controlled than in this country. The big banks were, of course, swift to assure customers that they are safe. HSBC, for example, says the security measures it uses in India are identical to those used in the UK. Call centre operators can only access data to answer a specific customer inquiry, no members of staff have access to a customer's full Pin or code words, and the software is specially designed to prevent data downloads. But the worries remain. Companies that outsource to India pay their staff a fraction of the salaries paid in the UK. It's why they go there. Fraud will flourish more easily in an environment where workers are underpaid and the victims live on the other side of the globe. Indian call centres have brought cost-savings for UK consumers, and are generally well run and efficient. Economists also insist that outsourcing brings net job gains rather than losses. Anti-globalisation campaigners tell a different story. The pace of outsourcing has been frenetic; now may be the time for banks to take stock before shifting more operations overseas.",
  "title": "Patrick Collinson: On reflection",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/ethicalbusiness",
    "money/money",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Patrick Collinson: The ease with which personal details can be bought from Indian call centres does raise legitimate concerns, and experts say data theft from overseas call centres has been a time bomb waiting to go off.\n",
  "id": "business/2005/jun/25/ethicalbusiness.money",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}