{
  "content": "Veteran Silicon Valley entrepreneur Marc Andreessen has been appointed to Facebook's board of directors, the social networking site confirmed last night. Andreessen, who co-founded the early web company Netscape and the software firm Loudcloud, has invested in several web start-ups and is said to be a personal mentor to Facebook's 24-year-old founder, Mark Zuckerberg. He takes the fourth seat on the Facebook board alongside Zuckerberg and investors Peter Thiel, of Clarion Capital, and Jim Breyer, from Accel Partners. Confirming months of speculation about the appointment, Zuckerberg said Andreessen \"has experience that is relevant to Facebook in so many ways: scaling companies that are experiencing extraordinary growth, creating successful technology platforms, and building strong engineering organisations\". Andreessen, who was made chief technical officer by AOL when it acquired Netscape in 1999, now heads the white-label social networking site Ning.com. The site allows users to set up and manage their own specialised social networks, but Facebook has characterised the site as complementary to its own service and Andreessen will remain chairman of Ning.com. Andreessen will be seen as a crucial ally of Zuckerberg as Facebook - now the world's largest social network, according to comScore - faces the challenge of generating serious revenue from its large audience with targeted advertising. The site was criticised over privacy concerns for the way it tried to implement a personalised advertising system called Facebook Beacon last year. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Netscape co-founder joins Facebook board",
  "lead": "Veteran Silicon Valley entrepreneur Marc Andreessen has been appointed to Facebook's board of directors. By Jemima Kiss",
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "business/business",
    "world/world",
    "media/mediabusiness",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/silicon-valley"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "business/2008/jul/01/andreessen.facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}