{
  "content": "Walking down a leafy residential road on my way to work, I heard a crash. Two boys lay on the tarmac. Their pastel-pink moped had hit a black Smart car as it rounded a corner \u2013 blossom was falling like spat-out bubblegum, and one boy brushed the petals from his shoulder as he dribbled red mouthfuls of bubbling teeth. Two strangers had already rushed over. Passed out by the car, the moped's driver was being folded into the recovery position, and from the doorway of a house an ambulance was being called. The owner of the car gesticulated, wide-eyed (\"They came out of nowhere!\" he said, pointing to nowhere). I hovered. I looked for their lost trainers. Time passed. A man fished a single shoe from the tree in his garden, and as he laced it the spitting boy, whose leg looked painfully odd, stood up. He hobbled towards his friend, a puddle of blood around his head, and slowly pulled him upright. The little crowd of us told him to stay still (his forehead was slashed open), but holding the other boy's arm, he rose and stumbled, limpingly, to the pavement. When I saw them closely I realised how young they were, preteen and dazed; I looked again at the moped, upended on the pavement, its pink scraped and clashing with the boys' black caps, and I realised they were trying to run away. With the ambulance would come the police, who would arrest them for stealing the bike. I followed behind, slowly, ready to catch them if they fell. I had horrible visions of a hoodied collapse, a shuffled seizure in a leafy street, and then the swooping of police \u2013 these broken kids being cuffed and carted away. As we neared the end of the road and on to a busy parade of pound shops, the pair turned silently, caps on, hoods up, a scarf hiding their faces and wounds, and they stared me out. We were standing face to face in a lake of fallen blossom. One boy's face was scratched and bleeding, the other boy's ankle was twisted like a question mark \u2013 they thought I was chasing them, but I wanted to help. I froze. It's happened before \u2013 something occurs that makes me stop dead with uncertainty, and days later I'm still grinding my teeth in frustration. In Cosmo quizzes I'm indecisive, unable to work out my \"Intimacy IQ\" or whether I have \"Sexy Power\" \u2013 my pencil hovers between \"mostly As\" and \"mostly Bs\". When forming my opinions I veer towards grey areas like a fixed-wheel bike. I've spent summer days quite still beside a supermarket fridge, losing the picnic daylight as I start to rock, crippled between the choice of a Cornetto or Feast. In the time I once took to weigh up the wording of a tweet about Kerry Katona's TV show, she'd split from her boyfriend and the pun didn't work any more. I visibly drooped. After some seconds, the boys limped away. No sirens, no police. Should I have dialled 999? Should I have called another ambulance? Or should I have, as I did, simply stand and stare, and shudder, and worry, continuously, for days? TWITTER USERS have shorter relationships than everyone else. They're in and out, like bathers in a cold pool, suggests a study by the dating site OkCupid: \"People who Tweet live their life in shorter bursts,\" says the site's co-founder, in 50 characters. This is reported as proof that technology ruins our lives, alienating us as we type away in windowless rooms \u2013 an image that irritates me wildly. There's the assumption that longevity is preferable to the brief learning curve of a tweet-length affair, and that relationships with people who live largely online are lesser, lonelier. I pity the older generation for whom this is true \u2013 in my experience the internet friendship is just as rich, and in its brevity, often far more fun.",
  "title": "Walk on by: Eva Wiseman",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "When a nasty moped crash turns into a slow-motion getaway, it's hard to know what to do; plus, the rush of brief encounters in the Twittersphere",
  "id": "lifeandstyle/2011/may/01/traffic-accident-twitter-eva-wiseman",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}