{
  "content": "Is that Miss on the razz? Gross! Teachers are professional, serious, upstanding members of the community, right? Well, not if their Facebook profiles are anything to go by. Drunken photos, relationship details and salacious messages are being shared on the social networking site, with privacy settings often meaning anyone - including colleagues, pupils and parents - can access them. \"That picture is so you. Tits out, on the slopes, big smile,\" reads a message on one secondary teacher's wall, in response to his bare-chested profile photo. The Facebook group \"It's freaky, my teachers have Facebook\" was created by weirded-out teenagers. Yes, teachers have lives, too, and yes, they can have friends, but how much do we really need to know? Erica O'Hagan is in her first year of university, and came across some of her teachers' profiles when she left school: \"I've come to the conclusion that teachers don't live for school. They are human, and just like us they will go on the razz,\" she says. Some teachers take great care in maintaining their privacy, even joining the site under a false name. Many are more relaxed, becoming friends with former or current students. One evidently popular teacher's wall was littered with messages from pupils, the most potentially embarrassing being: \"Thanks for marking me in on time for the last 3-4 weeks. When I get my EMA [education maintenance allowance] I will give you a little \u00a320, lol x.\" Other teachers do not think it appropriate to be friends with pupils. \"Some students have added me as a friend. I never accept them,\" says the assistant headteacher of a London school, who didn't want to be named. \"It just opens you up to accusations and suppositions that may be unfounded but are none the less damaging,\" he says. Some teachers seem not to realise that throwaway comments could reach a wider audience. One SEN coordinator wrote in the job section of her profile: \"I work with the naughty, low-ability kids.\" This might pass for harmless banter in the pub, but could have serious implications if read by the wrong people. Mick Brookes, the general secretary of the National Association of Head Teachers, says teachers should think twice before posting personal information on Facebook: \"We advise people to be circumspect. Teachers need to ask themselves whether it's going to reinforce or undermine their authority.\" Brookes adds, however: \"We are in a high-trust profession, but we don't want to be a stuffy profession.\" Emmanuelle Smith Delayed ratification Want a board game that combines the wordiness of Scrabble and the strategy of Monopoly but is over before the arguments start? Retired teacher John Chambers thinks he has found the answer. He invented the game Blackhole 20 years ago to entertain his three young sons, and rediscovered the old board 18 years later when it fell out of a cupboard as he was moving house. When he played it again with his children, now grown up, they immediately identified its educational value, and all enjoyed it so much they decided it was worth spreading the word. Chambers and his wife, Fiona, also a retired teacher, spent a year researching and developing the game, which involves combining vowels, consonants and combinations of sounds to form words, while moving around a board. They found a company to manufacture the box and board, another to make the word cards, bought in plastic counters from China, and, by last month, were ready to begin assembling it all in their house in Eastbourne, and hawking it around local Christmas fairs. The game now has a website, www.blackholegame.co.uk, and a local Eastbourne gift shop has agreed to keep a regular stock. Several have also been bought by the schools where Chambers and his wife once worked. Jeremy Griffith, head of St Andrew's school in Eastbourne, says: \"I played it with our head of special needs and she said she could see terrific value in reinforcing concepts for special needs children.\" The game is designed to suit children with dyslexia or other special needs because the vowels, consonants and combinations are all different colours, while moving the letters around helps those who learn kinaesthetically. The way long words can be built quickly boosts children's confidence, and Chambers has built in strategic elements to make it interesting for adults, too. He has also included a scoring system that ensures no game should last more than 50 minutes. By the end of their first week of trading, the Chambers had sold 255 of the games, and had banked nearly \u00a35,000. (Seven bank employees promptly signed up.) They expect to sell up to 5,000 more before Christmas, if they can get enough help with packing and selling. So far, the couple have been staying up until 4am packing, and leaving for fairs early the following morning. \"I'm having the time of my life,\" says Chambers, 60, who can't believe how quickly it has all taken off. \"For some reason, this game is much much better than I thought it was.\" His plan is to enter the European market next year and sell up to 150,000 games worldwide by 2009. This will involve making slight adjustments to the proportion of vowels and consonants to reflect different languages, since the proportions in the English game were carefully worked out through statistical analysis of online dictionaries. But with ambitions to value the company at around \u00a33m within two years, he is already thinking in terms of Monopoly money rather than triple word scores. Harriet Swain Small but perfectly formed Islanders on Skerries in Shetland spent the weekend celebrating the council's decision to allow the island's tiny secondary school to remain open. But is it right to keep an institution with only one pupil going? That was the question at the heart of the fiercely fought battle. The 76 islanders have always prided themselves on the fact that Skerries school has a primary facility and a secondary one. What this means at present is an institution with one nursery child, four primary children and one 12-year-old boy in the secondary. There's a head and one other teacher, and each Thursday a music and a DT teacher fly in for the day. Sheila Smith, the head, feels strongly that it's essential to keep the secondary unit going. \"There might be only one child this year, but next year there'll be two and the year after there'll be three,\" she says. \"Skerries is the only Shetland island where families can stay together until the children are 16 - on the other islands, secondary-aged children travel to the Shetland mainland to secondary school, and board there in hostels.\" \"If the secondary unit was shut, there would be depopulation because families would move away rather than send their children away to school,\" she says. But can such a tiny institution really provide a rounded education? Smith maintains it can. \"What we can provide is a curriculum where we're able to tailor the education very individually.\" Doesn't the 12-year-old miss having a peer group? Smith turns the question on its head: what you get from living on Skerries, she says, is the ability to get on well with people of all ages. Across on the Shetland mainland, though, the head of the islands' schools is wondering how she's going to make the \u00a33m cuts she has to make from her \u00a333m budget. \"Closing a facility that costs \u00a380,056 is an obvious place to look,\" she says. \"And there are questions of fairness and equality, too - all other secondary children across Shetland travel to the mainland to be educated. Why should Skerries be different?\" She disagrees that what the tiny school offers can be enough as children get older. \"We're not talking about the primary department, because we'd never try to close that,\" she says. \"But by secondary age, children need a fully rounded educational experience. I think it would be a better preparation for his adult life for this child to be in a more normal-sized secondary.\" In the meantime, she says, she is having to look anew at her budget. \"It's going to mean more cuts that affect all the children in Shetland now.\" Joanna Moorhead",
  "title": "Teachers' Facebook profiles, a new board game and the school with only one pupil",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "education/schools",
    "education/education",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/facebook"
  ],
  "lead": "Is that Miss on the razz? Gross! | Delayed ratification | Small but perfectly formed",
  "id": "education/2007/dec/04/schools.uk4",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}