{
  "content": "The Daily Mirror has lambasted its tabloid rivals for publishing pictures of Prince William in breach of an agreement to respect his privacy while he is still in full-time education. Three newspapers including the Mail on Sunday and the News of the World published paparazzi snapshots of the prince getting a foot massage from a female friend at a rugby tournament at St Andrews university, prompting a complaint yesterday from St James's Palace. In its leader column today, the Mirror declared that it had \"scrupulously respected the privacy of Prince William while he has been at university\". \"Belatedly the palace has complained,\" the leader continued. \"About time. If the rule is that William's privacy is to be protected until he finishes his education, everyone must abide by it.\" The Prince of Wales's private secretary, Sir Michael Peat, said the pictures of the student prince contravened informal agreements with the media to allow him to have as normal an education as possible. \"I'm concerned that, if a paparazzi market for photographs and stories of William at St Andrews is encouraged, the resulting fear of constant press intrusion will seriously affect the way in which Prince William is able to live and study at university,\" he said. Sir Michael said he recognised that interest in the prince would increase in the run-up to his 21st birthday in June and that there would be access for the media to mark the event in line with the informal agreement. He said he hoped the system of press self-regulation would continue to operate. It is believed the palace will discuss the photographs with the editors concerned and the press complaints commission. Tabloid newspaper editors are becoming increasingly frustrated by the lack of official photographs of the the prince, which were promised as part of the agreement not to follow Prince William or Harry while they were in their full-time education. The News of the World editor, Andy Coulson, criticised St James's Palace for failing to keep its side of the bargain over access to the young princes when he gave evidence to a parliamentary inquiry into privacy and media intrusion in March. His complaint came just two days after the News of the World published unauthorised pictures of Prince William walking down a street in St Andrews carrying supermarket bags. It emerged last week that Prince William was expected to give his first interview to Peter Cox, the editor of the Glasgow-based Daily Record, to be pooled among all Scottish newspapers. The interview is likely to concentrate on his time as a student at St Andrews, where he is coming to the end of the second year of an art history degree, and his experiences of Scotland.",
  "title": "Mirror attacks rivals over royal pictures",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/daily-mirror",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "uk/prince-william",
    "uk/uk",
    "uk/monarchy"
  ],
  "lead": "10.15am: The Daily Mirror has lambasted its tabloid competitors for publishing pictures of Prince William in breach of an agreement to respect his privacy. By Ciar Byrne",
  "id": "media/2003/may/07/pressandpublishing.mirror",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}