{
  "content": "The official cost of the controversial national identity card scheme has soared in the past six months by \u00a3840m, according to Home Office figures published yesterday. It means the total cost of the project is now \u00a35.75bn. But the latest six-monthly estimate makes it clear that even this figure is far from likely to be the final bill, since it excludes the costs of the ID card scheme to government departments outside the Home Office. For instance, the costs of card scanners for GPs registering new patients or for social security offices paying out welfare benefits are as yet excluded from this official estimate. Conservatives and Liberal Democrats last night claimed the government had broken the law in delaying the publication of the report showing the spiralling costs of Tony Blair's flagship project. The government is obliged by law to publish a costs estimate for the scheme every six months, but this report's publication was postponed for a month until after the local election campaigns. The October report put the cost over the next 10 years of issuing combined passports and identity cards to British citizens and the million Irish citizens resident in the UK at \u00a34.91bn. The estimate published yesterday says that that sum has now risen to \u00a35.55bn because of inflation and because it is now thought that many more staff will be needed in the early years of the scheme to vet applications and implement increased anti-fraud measures. \"Estimates of the staff necessary to deliver the [ID] scheme and ... support functions have been increased to reflect the current view of the effort required,\" said a Home Office spokesman. But \u00a35.55bn is not the final figure. For the first time the Identity and Passport Service has also published a \u00a3200m estimate for the cost of ensuring that all foreign nationals resident in Britain for more than three months also carry ID cards. From next year the Home Office's Borders and Immigration Agency will require all foreign nationals to have a biometric ID card when they apply to stay longer in the UK. That extra \u00a3200m drives up the final cost estimate to \u00a35.75bn. The Home Office has also excluded \u00a3510m of Foreign Office costs from its original estimate, published last October, saying it had mistakenly included the total costs of running consular services abroad, including its embassies, in the ID scheme's price. This had been done because the \u00a3510m bill is recovered through a surcharge on the cost of passports. The effect of this change is to cut the original October estimate from \u00a35.4bn to \u00a34.9bn. Phil Booth, of the NO2ID campaign, said the Home Office was \"dumping\" \u00a3510m of the costs of the combined passport/ID card on the Foreign Office and trying to discount it from future calculations. The government says it has yet to fix the price of the ID card, but the average cost would be about \u00a393 combined with a passport, and ministers intend the scheme to be self-financing. The entire cost of foreign nationals' ID cards is to be recovered in charges. The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: \"The public should brace themselves for more increases every time this estimate is updated.\" Timetable May 2007 Personal interviews start for all adults applying for passports for the first time 2008 Issuing of biometric ID cards starts for all non-European foreign nationals resident in UK on re-applying to stay. Digital photos and fingerprints needed by visa applicants from 108 countries visiting UK. Electronic data on marriages and births used to check passport applications 2009 First ID cards for British citizens begin to be issued with enrolment including scanning electronic fingerprints of applicants 2010 Growth in biometric ID cards combined with British passport. Start of \"e-borders\" programme at large ports, with advance logging of all arriving and departing passengers 2011 If Labour wins general election parliament then votes on whether to make ID cards compulsory for entire population 2012 ID cards will be needed to register with a GP, use non-emergency NHS services, claim social security benefits and get access to higher education courses.",
  "title": "Cost of national ID card scheme soars by \u00a3840m in six months",
  "lead": "&#183; Delay in revealing data broke law, claim MPs&#183; Spiralling bill includes cards for foreign nationals",
  "tags": [
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/idcards",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/immigration"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "politics/2007/may/11/idcards.immigrationpolicy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}