{
  "content": "The government's mandatory data retention bill places limitations on human rights that are \"not proportionate\" to the intentions of the proposed scheme, a scathing report published on Tuesday by a cross-party committee says. Among its concerns, the joint parliamentary committee on human rights raised a warning about the length of time material could be kept, questioned how the information could be used, and criticised the lack of definition about what constitutes a reason for data to be kept. The report said: \"While the committee acknowledges that the prevention and detection of crime may be regarded as a legitimate objective for human rights purposes, the committee is of the view that \u2026 the proposed limitation is not proportionate to the stated aims of the proposed scheme.\" Last month the Abbott government announced measures to retain users' phone and internet data, saying it would not collect the content of the information, just the digital footprint \u2013 the information that marks out movements online and on the phone, such as sites visited or numbers called. It was part of a suite of counter-terrorism bills introduced to parliament over the past few months. The committee's report called for amendments to the legislation to inform individuals when an application to access their data has been made, except for investigations of serious crimes. It also wants targeted individuals to be able to \"challenge\" that access. Access to data retained should be granted \"only on the basis of a warrant approved by a court or independent administrative tribunal\", a change that would also require a rewrite of part the data retention bill. The committee warned that the decision of the attorney general, George Brandis, to defer legislating on the definition of what constitutes metadata \u2013 the content intended to be retained under the bill \u2013 could mean the collection of content that falls beyond the stated intentions of the bill. Its report said without a proper definition, content collected may include names, addresses, dates of birth, location of communication, location of devices, length of communication, IP addresses and volumes of downloaded material. \"The concern about the undefined types of data to be collected is compounded by the fact that what constitutes the 'content' of a communication (and would therefore be excluded from collection) is undefined in the bill, which could see data retained that does include aspects of content,\" the report reads. The committee wanted the government to write a clear definition into the bills of what will be collected. \"The committee therefore recommends that, to avoid the arbitrary interference with the right to privacy that would result from not defining the content that is excluded from required retention, the bill be amended to include an exclusive definition of 'content' for the purposes of the scheme,\" its report said., The cross-party committee that looks at whether incoming legislation impacts on human rights, noted that submissions made by law enforcement agencies say that data held longer for six months is rarely used in investigations, and questions whether it is necessary to retain data for two years, as is proposed in the bill. \"The committee therefore requests the further advice of the attorney general as to whether the two-year retention period is necessary and proportionate in pursuit of a legitimate objective.\" Furthermore, the report raises serious concerns about how the retained data would be applied, saying there is no threshold for the seriousness of crimes it could be used to investigate. The human rights committee said that the bill should be amended to restrict access to retained data \"where it is 'necessary' for investigations of specific serious crimes such as major indictable offences or specific serious threats\". The committee echoes concerns made by media organisations and civil rights advocates that the bill will unfairly target journalists, lawyers and whistleblowers, saying that the effect on journalists if the bill is not amended will be \"chilling\". Greens senator Scott Ludlam told parliament on Tuesday afternoon that Brandis is already backing down on data retention measures. \"The government is on the back foot, such that it has delayed debate till 2015,\" Ludlam said, adding that the legislation does not pass the \"commonsense test\". But Liberal National party senator Ian McDonald said the legislation is \"an essential tool\" for catching would-be terrorists. He pleaded for a sensible approach to the debate.",
  "title": "Data retention bill's human rights limitations are over the top, report says",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/data-protection",
    "australia-news/coalition",
    "australia-news/george-brandis",
    "australia-news/australia-news",
    "australia-news/australian-politics",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Cross-party federal committee scathing in its criticism of Abbott government's mandatory data retention plans",
  "id": "technology/2014/nov/18/data-retention-bills-human-rights-limitations-are-over-the-top-report-says",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}