{
  "content": "With his usual flair for publicity Gordon Brown's denial that he ordered anyone to bully Alistair Darling managed to bump Rupert Murdoch's bullying media executives off the top of the BBC's bulletins, where they deserve to be this morning. Thanks Gordon. There again, perhaps he was trying to do the Dirty Digger (copyright Private Eye) a favour in the desperate hope that one of his publications might be kind to Labour on election day. Well, dear, they won't. Murdoch's policy from here to the Marxist gerontocracy in Beijing is to be on the winning side. The Times and the Sun are now aggressively pro-Tory, as the Sunday Times (which printed the dud economists' letter) and News of the Screws always have been without any arm-twisting by Andy \"I Know Nothing\" Coulson. It's possible to argue that the Guardian's coverage of the culture select committee's report is excessively thorough. It addresses privacy, libel tourism, super-injunctions, the systemic abuse of the McCanns and Max Mosley and other problems in medialand \u2013 not just the NoW's illegal phone taps. All really important issues for the media, good, bad and monstrous, and all credit to the Tory committee chairman, John Whittingdale, for following the evidence with rigour, awkward for his party though some of it would be. So let's look at the rivals' coverage. The Times publishes two modest articles \u2013 about 1,000 words in total \u2013 on page 15. The admirable FT does little better. Nor does the Daily Mail, which remains cross about Mosley's Nazi-free sex life, a cynical scam for which the Screws was rightly punished by the high court. I do not allow the other papers into the house, where my wife might read them unsupervised. But I googled the Sun's account for you here. It would be comic if it wasn't so serious. How does this fit in with bullygate? Quite well actually. Andrew Rawnsley's allegations that Gordon Brown bullied staff have gone round the world, as this bit of south-east Asian CGI joyously confirms. Brown's allies have denied it all. The cabinet secretary, Sir Gus O'Donnell, more or less denied ticking him off at the third attempt, though I imagine he had to be bullied into doing it. Brown himself went on to GMTV \u2013 the politician's soft option \u2013 today. He denied that he had authorised his attack dogs to go after the chancellor when Darling told the Guardian in August 2008 that the global recession was shaping up to be the worst for 60 years. Henry II made much the same complaint when those ruffian knights chopped up Thomas Beckett. \"I would never instruct anybody to do anything other than to support my chancellor,\" he said after Darling had confirmed on Sky News TV (proprietor R Murdoch) that No 10 \u2013 as well as the Tories \u2013 had unleashed \"the forces of hell\" on him. I have to be careful here. As the Westminster village knows, my son, Sam White, works for Darling and people may think I know more than I do. For obvious reasons we avoid this stuff in the family, but I read the papers, watch TV and talk to other people. I respected Darling long before Sam ever clapped eyes on him \u2013 though he was not much of a journalist's source because he wasn't an egotist and didn't bad-mouth his colleagues. Darling is a nice chap with a steady temperament (perfect for a financial meltdown when bankers panic) and dry sense of humour, and in 1997 I'd have placed a bet on his surviving in cabinet to the end with Brown and Jack Straw \u2013 along with Charles Clarke, Patricia Hewitt and David Blunkett. Anyway, thanks to Brown's weakness and the loyalty of cabinet colleagues who prefer him to Ed Balls, Darling is now secure in his job and \u2013 we all imagine \u2013 fighting for a credible budget next month. The Observer's extract from Rawnsley's book on past battles with Brown is illuminating on this too. The chancellor didn't accuse Brown of doing it; he appeared to confirm Sky's Jeff Randall's suggestion that Charlie Whelan and Damian McBride were behind it \u2013 as in \"the fact is that I'm still here and one of them is not\". I do not know if that was the case \u2013 they do/did not brief me in this way \u2013 but assume it to have been so, though McBride has apparently denied it today. Just as I thought Brown would see off assorted plotters and be PM on polling day, I thought Darling would see off Brown and Balls \u2013 as Tony Blair did for a decade. Back to the NoW's phone hacking and the bullying culture. When McBride was forced out as a Brown adviser at No 10 for organising smears against Tories I remarked that the papers most vociferous in condemning him were almost certainly his main clients. It was a bit like those Louisiana hell-fire preachers or Republican politicians eager to condemn the sin of fornication until caught in the brothel themselves. It leaves them no choice but bravely to blame the women for temptin' them. What is striking is that some \u2013 some \u2013 senior figures in both main parties feel obliged to surround themselves with such predatory figures in the same way some citizens feel the need to own a rottweiler because they can't afford a bodyguard. Alastair Campbell usually gets pride of place in the demonology, though he was a much more constructive figure than is usually understood, just as Peter Mandelson is self-evidently so now that he is out in the open as a cabinet member (again). McBride, a Treasury civil servant who went over to the dark side, paid the price, as did Whelan when Mandelson was first forced to resign over his undeclared \u00a3273,000 mortgage in 1998. Whelan, then Brown's political adviser at the Treasury, was blamed for leaking it to the Guardian's David Hencke. It wasn't fair and I went on TV to say so because I knew it wasn't Charlie what done it, not on this occasion. But he was a convenient scapegoat and Geoffrey Robinson, the wealthy Brownite minister who made the mortgage loan, had to go too (he didn't leak it either). The Brownites went on gunning for Mandelson almost until the moment they realised they needed him to rescue the boss in 2008. I hope it keeps them awake at night. But what is striking about this morning's stories is that David Cameron already finds himself in much the same position. The man at the centre of the royal phone intercept affair is Andy Coulson, who resigned as NoW editor as a result and is now Cameron's Alastair Campbell, though probably more his Charlie Whelan. No evidence was found by the committee that Coulson knew what was going on. Honest readers can make different judgments about that, though the committee's \"amnesia\", \"obfuscation\" and \"hush money\" sounds about right to me. When I watched Murdoch executives giving evidence to the committee last year it reminded me of Claude Rains playing the police chief in Casablanca. \"Gambling? You don't say? Round up the usual suspects ... \" Coulson proved a very cool customer under fire, but as the select committee reports points out \u2013 on a Labour majority vote \u2013 the NoW was forced to pay out \u00a3800k to a sports reporter whom Coulson had bullied rotten. Why do some politicians \u2013 a Brown but not a Darling, a Cameron but not a Nick Clegg \u2013 feel the need to keep a couple of rottweilers? To protect themselves and to guide their media agenda, knowing that it is often set by the tabloids for TV as well as for themselves; but also to attack others. Don't say it doesn't happen in high finance, in business, including showbusiness, or in sport; it's just that such people usually have more money and aggressive lawyers \u2013 as Mosley reminded the News of the World. But don't forget the common thread in all these stories. There is a market for the filth \u2013 much of it true, more of it untrue \u2013 and it is us \u2013 you and me both: the people who write this stuff, often in a bullying environment, and those who love to read it. Hands up if you've read a line about Cheryl Cole separating from Ashley ...",
  "title": "Gordon Brown's flair for publicity knocks News of the World off top of bulletins | Michael White",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/politics",
    "politics/gordon-brown",
    "politics/alistairdarling",
    "society/bullying",
    "society/society",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Michael White: Well done, Gordon. Perhaps he was trying to do Rupert Murdoch a favour. Big mistake",
  "id": "politics/blog/2010/feb/24/brown-bullying-claims-news-of-the-world-michael-white",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}