{
  "content": "One of Britain's top judges will today call for a tough independent regulatory body to hand out stiff fines for breach of privacy rights and for false slurs on people's reputations. Sir Stephen Sedley, a senior Court of Appeal judge, will argue in a lecture at Oxford University that the change is needed partly because libel cases are so expensive that the law \"over-protects personal reputation at the expense of free speech\". One reason libel awards may be so high, he suggests, is that juries know that \u00a310,000 could almost be paid from a newspaper's petty cash. A statutory regulator could take the deterrence element out of the courts, leaving the courts to award modest damages proportionate to the harm suffered. The trade-off, \"if the reduced expense of defaming people is not simply to become part of the operating costs of aggressive journalism\", he says, \"has to be some form of statutory regulation, and regulation with rules, legal standards and teeth\". He dismisses the case for retaining any part of the Press Complaints Commission, the industry's voluntary self-regulator, except its code of practice, \"which sets out admirable principles which the more aggressive of its subscribers seem to have very little difficulty in circumventing\". He urges that the proposed new statutory regulator should be put under a duty to protect genuine investigative journalism, \"not about who a footballer has been sleeping with but about whether public figures have been on the take; not about a model trying to shake off a drug habit but about drug dealers getting police protection\". With a right of appeal from the regulator to the courts on issues of law, the line between the public and the private may be better drawn by a regulatory body \"than by the verdicts of courts in cost-driven litigation\", he contends. Sir Stephen argues that privacy, particularly over sexual activity, is not yet adequately protected by English law and suggests breaches of privacy would be better dealt with by a regulator rather than through the courts. He says it would take the inflationary and punitive elements out of the courts which try libel and privacy actions. It would also eliminate the media's \"terror\" of conditional fees - no-win, no-fee arrangements - which allow claimants' lawyers to get double fees from the newspaper if they win. Naomi Campbell, the supermodel who sued the Daily Mirror for revealing that she was having treatment for drug addiction, won only \u00a33,500 damages but her lawyers presented the Mirror Group with bills for just over \u00a31m, Sir Stephen says. The wronged party would refer the case to the regulator, which would investigate at its own expense. Any fine would go to public funds. Sir Stephen takes issue with the Court of Appeal's decision in 2002 to lift an injunction preventing the People publishing the stories of two women about sex with the married footballer Garry Flitcroft. Of the court's reasoning that there was a public interest in telling the story because the footballer was a role model for young people, he said that \"one has to wonder what our moral custodians imagine goes on in young people's minds\". Sir Stephen considers it \"extremely doubtful\" that the case would be decided in the same way today, following a victory at the European court of human rights for Princess Caroline of Monaco which has \"far-reaching\" implications for English law. The court ruled in June 2004 that well-known people were entitled to respect for their private lives, whether in a private spot or going about in public places, because it was something in which the public had no legitimate interest unless genuine public debate required it.",
  "title": "Judge calls for regulatory body to rule in libel cases",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "One of Britain's top judges will today call for a tough independent regulatory body to hand out stiff fines for breach of privacy rights and for false slurs on people's reputations. By Clare Dyer",
  "id": "media/2006/may/13/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}