{
  "content": "It's brilliant when the world surprises you. For those of us with mental health difficulties, there have been a lot of surprises since the general election, many of them unpleasant. But, as if by magic, 2 February seemed to turn into mental health Good News Wednesday. We had Nick Clegg's confirmation that an extra \u00a3400m would be put into helping people access psychological therapies, enough for \"70,000 going back into work\". Then there was the pleasing Alastair Campbell announcement of the repeal of the \"symbolic\" section 141 of the 1983 Mental Health Act, which allows the removal from office of any MPs sectioned for six months or more. We weren't expecting good news. Cuts to local councils have already seen a paring back of community and voluntary sector services which many of us with mental health difficulties use. We're anxious about proposed NHS cutbacks, and many of us who work are worried about our jobs. Proposed or actual changes to benefits, such as employment support allowance (the replacement for incapacity benefit), caps on housing benefit and alterations to the basis upon which disability living allowance is paid have left many shaken and worried. A government playing to the gallery has not helped public debate predicated upon the idea that those claiming benefits are scroungers. It often feels that opening a newspaper in the morning is closer to running a gauntlet than catching up on latest events. And then around lunchtime, after all of those the positive announcements, a lovely thing started to happen. Twitter was deluged with messages about mental health. \"Fair enough\", you might think, \"Wednesday was also the launch of No health without mental health\", the oft-delayed cross-governmental outcomes strategy for mental health in England. But it wasn't that. There were hundreds of tweets, and thousands more as the day went on, all sharing 140-character slices of people's experiences of mental health, labelled with the hashtag #whatstigma. A tweet from actor Rebecca Front (@rebeccafront), most famous for her role as Nicola Murray MP in The Thick of It, started the deluge: \"Hey well known Twitterers. Fancy taking the stigma out of mental illness? I'll start: I'm Rebecca Front &amp; I've had panic attacks. #whatstigma\" Some replies were hopeful, some despairing, some pragmatic. Others inspirational, funny or heartbreaking. For some, it was the first time they had ever revealed in public that they have experienced or do experience mental health difficulties. Coming as it did along with these positive policy statements, it felt, however briefly, that we might have turned a corner. Seeing the diversity of people's experience of mental health difficulty expressed in such a simple way points toward some of the reservations many hold regarding any grand announcement of new money for mental health. Mental health is something that is woven through society and doesn't affect only one type of person in one sort of way. Most people, myself included, applaud any new money allotted to the treatment or support of people with difficulties. The focus on early intervention \u2013 to stop people becoming more unwell and to make sure that untreated conditions do not limit the opportunities of young people \u2013 is excellent. However, it is not hard to empathise with those already unwell asking: \"But what about us?\" Many are aware that funds for eye-catching new initiatives based around particular therapies don't necessarily solve the problem of a lack of funds or resources for the huge variety of services and treatments that are already straining. Others are also worried about the \"back to work\" focus of this new money. Some will find it hard to shake this scepticism. I hope the coalition is beginning to realise that we aren't a problem for the electorate \u2013 we are a part of the electorate. It seems an elementary point, but one that their rhetoric surrounding cuts and savings related to disability-related benefits seemed to miss. As I've said elsewhere, there isn't one simple frontline in the battle against mental health difficulty, but as the thousands of voice on Twitter show, there's far more of us than a lot guessed.",
  "title": "Gosh, it was Good News Wednesday for mental health | Mark Brown",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "society/mental-health",
    "society/society",
    "politics/health",
    "politics/politics",
    "politics/welfare",
    "society/health",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/disability",
    "society/nhs",
    "uk/uk",
    "society/benefits"
  ],
  "lead": "Mark Brown: Pleasant surprises from the government \u2013 and Twitter \u2013 give cause for some optimism on mental health issues",
  "id": "commentisfree/2011/feb/03/good-news-mental-health-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}