{
  "content": "Across the world blackouts are happening and power grids are being shut down. From Europe to America, and across Asia and Africa, we're losing the cyberwar. But the enemy is not who you might think: it is squirrels. While we're busy worrying about hackers and rogue states, squirrels scamper into electricity substations and chew through power cables. They're the kamikaze troops in nature's war against national infrastructure. To underscore just how dangerous these furry villains are, CyberSquirrel1 has been collecting all the examples of successful cyberwarfare from these rodents \u2013 as well as other animals, from birds to beavers and rats to snakes and racoons. To date, they have verified 623 power outages which can be directly, publicly attributed to squirrels, as well as a further 347 that can be blamed on other animals. They add, though, that \"there are many more executed ops than displayed on this map however, those ops remain classified\". The site also tracks successful cyberwarfare carried out by nation states. It counts one: the Stuxnet computer worm that took out Iran's nuclear facilities in 2009 and 2010, believed to be created by US and Israeli computer scientists. There have been other reported cyberattacks on national infrastructure, including one in Ukraine over Christmas, but the site's creator points out that those can't be verified as coming from nation states. \"Of all the claimed nation state cyber attacks that have impacted critical infrastructure that we have been made aware of such as the Brazil Blackouts, German Steel Plant event, and the Ukrainian power outages only the US-led Stuxnet operation can be confirmed at this time.\" Squirrels 623 \u2013 Nation states 1. The point, of course, is not that we should declare war on rodents, but that cyberwarfare remains a slightly overblown fear. State-sponsored hackers are out there, but for the most part they are content with going after softer and more valuable targets such as identity databases and financial information. The site's creator, an anonymous information security professional, said that their motivation for creating it was to flesh out what had already become longstanding observation among infosec circles. \"There is tons of hype about how we are at so much risk from a devastating cyber attack, and yet we can't even protect our infrastructure from squirrels, or birds or snakes. \"I decided to take it to the next level, and a few years ago created this account to document just how prevalent the squirrel menace actually was to illustrate the point\". And rodents aren't just a humorous comparison: the site's creator points out that there's a very real problem with lack of coverage of squirrel attacks, as well as over-reporting of cyberwarfare. For instance, one article they cite \"claims 560 outages in 2015 in Montana alone caused by squirrels. I have news articles for two of them.\" The threat is real, and hidden. If there's one point to take home, it's that fears about cyberwarfare shouldn't keep you up at night. \"Of course there is some risk there,\" CyberSquirrel1's creator says. \"Cyber security of the electric grid is important, but not at the levels that the cyberwar hawks have been preaching.\" Squirrels, though. Those guys are dangerous.",
  "title": "The power grid's greatest enemy has four legs and a bushy tail",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/cyberwar",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "world/espionage"
  ],
  "lead": "CyberSquirrel1 aims to show that it's not hackers we should be afraid of \u2013 it's squirrels",
  "id": "technology/2016/jan/14/power-grid-cybersquirrel1-hackers-cyberwarfare",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}