{
  "content": "Jeremy Corbyn's campaigners and detractors have reacted with both jubilance and fear for the future, with both camps having led passionate online campaigns throughout the contest. Unlike many other waves behind political movements, which never translated to real change, the Corbyn online fandom actually went out and voted in their man, rather than just liking him on Facebook. Now he's officially the leader of the opposition, here's how the internet reacted to Corbyn's landslide victory: Corbynmania climaxes as fans celebrate Corbyn's supporters have been prolific in their use of social media throughout the campaign, buoyed by a number of high-profile champions in the media and entertainment worlds. One of the first to celebrate a Corbyn victory was Pablo Iglesias, the leader of Spain's left-wing Podemos party, which has enjoyed similar surges of support, particularly among the young. Gloom for some long-term Labour supporters Not all of the party's supporters were celebrating, though the landslide of support for Corbyn meant there was little dispute he has an extraordinary mandate. Much of the criticism hinged on the belief that Corbyn could split the party, and would not be a credible threat to the Conservatives in 2020. Several members on Twitter said they would be leaving the party in the wake of the Corbyn victory. Conservatives are celebrating Corbyn's win Tony Blair didn't get a mention in the hall \u2013 but he did online Many commentators watching the proceedings at the QEII conference centre in Westminster were quick to point out how minimal any mentions of the Blair or Brown years were in any of the speeches, not just from Corbyn, but also from deputy leader Tom Watson, or Iain McNicol, the chair of the Labour party. But on Twitter, and among the crowds outside the hall, the ex-prime minister was at the forefront of many people's minds. Many started tweeting Blair's official account with faux concern. Heavyweight resignations announced \u2013 but Corbynistas weren't mourning Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, and Rachel Reeves, the shadow work and pensions secretary, were among the first to say they would not serve, and Jamie Reed, a shadow health minister, published his resignation letter on Twitter while Corbyn was still giving his victory speech. Others, including Ed Miliband and Emma Reynolds, also said they would be on the backbenches come next week. But many of Corbyn's supporters said it was right that those who had not supported his leadership should leave and allow Corbyn to build his own team in the frontbenches. John McDonnell, another veteran left-winger, is widely tipped to be offered the post of shadow chancellor. Will the Labour party ever have a woman leader? It did not escape the attention of the internet that all three key positions, of leader, deputy leader and London mayoral candidate are now held by men. But it was also especially noted that with McNicol and Jim Kennedy, chair of Labour's NEC \u2013 the other speakers \u2013 not a single woman was on the stage at any time. Andy Burnham was magnanimous, his team not so much ... Spot the difference, this one from the MP's main account. This one got deleted.",
  "title": "Corbynmania climaxes as fans celebrate online",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/labourleadership",
    "politics/jeremy-corbyn",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "politics/labour",
    "media/media",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "However, not all Labour party supporters are jubilant, with some posting pictures of cut-up membership cards on Twitter",
  "id": "politics/2015/sep/12/jeremy-corbyn-corbynmania-fans-celebrate-online-twitter-labour",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}