{
  "content": "It's been a while since we've all had a new horror subgenre to briefly enjoy, get bored with and then mercilessly criticise. The J-Horror remakes of the early noughties transformed into grimy torture pornos which turned into a tiresome run of Hollywood remakes which then gave way to found footage which, after five Paranormal Activity films, has become understandably less effective. Unfriended shares some similarities with the most recent cycle of scary movies in that it's not a traditionally filmed movie. But rather than being seen through an improbably introduced camcorder, the entirety of the film is seen via the main character's laptop screen. Conversations take place over Skype or iMessage, details are uncovered through Google and YouTube becomes an indispensable and dangerous weapon. The plot, taken without the software update, is horror 101. An embarrassing drunken video is uploaded online and not long after, the girl at the centre of it is cyber-bullied until she kills herself. A year on, a group of teens are haunted by her vengeful spirit through their various online profiles. It's I Know Who You Skyped Last Summer, in other words. The format sounds exhausting and at times, it really is. Watching someone else close down windows, type, re-type and search makes you want to take control of the keyboard and do it quicker yourself but once the action starts unfolding, it sort of works for a while. The pace is fast, the young actors surprisingly believable and the various web programs all used with confidence and authenticity (unlike most films, Unfriended utilises Google rather than Goosearch or Findle). But, even with an 82-minute running time, cracks start to show. One of the key problems with the script is that every single character is so utterly obnoxious and morally bankrupt that you start to relish their increasingly nasty deaths. The escalation of revelations (the friends are forced to play a game of \"I have never\" which shows them all to be truly abhorrent) becomes so absurdly mean-spirited that you start to wish it had been made as a black comedy instead. But the film is so proud of its ability to scare, that any dark wit is drowned out by incessant screaming. Unfriended isn't the first film to use this particular format (last year's The Den got there first) and it probably won't be the last but the gimmick has too many limitations to truly take off as a game-changer. Any lasting effect evaporates once the film is over - I was back on my smartphone the moment I left the screening, without a worry in my head. Unfriended is out in the US and released in the UK on 1 May",
  "title": "Unfriended review - I know who you Skyped last summer but iDon't care",
  "lead": "A film that takes place entirely within a computer screen has its moments but ultimately isn't worth emailing home about",
  "tags": [
    "film/horror",
    "film/film",
    "culture/culture",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "film/2015/apr/21/unfriended-review-social-media-horror",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}