{
  "content": "Rarely, in the long and turbulent history of the royal family's relationship with the press, has a palace spokesman used such direct and outspoken language. \"The past week has seen a line crossed,\" Kensington Palace said of the coverage of Prince Harry's relationship with the US TV actor Meghan Markle. Saying the prince fears for Markle's safety, the spokesman added: \"This is not a game. It is her life and his.\" The intervention will certainly have captured attention in tabloid newsrooms, but it is unlikely to usher in a permanent truce in a relationship that has been strained for the best part of 30 years. The decision to issue such a forthright statement is evidence, however, of the increasingly proactive approach that Kensington Palace is taking with the media, particularly in response to coverage of Harry and the family of Prince William. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge took a similarly direct approach last year when their spokesman wrote to editors warning that some paparazzi were using \"dangerous tactics\" to obtain photos of their son, Prince George, and \"profit from the image of a two-year-old boy\". That letter said photographers had stalked the prince's nanny, used toddlers to lure him into view and been discovered hiding in fields and woodland around their Norfolk home. It also claimed a photographer had set up a \"hide\" in his car, complete with sheets and supplies of food and drink, as he staked out a play area. The royals have also appealed to the Independent Press Standards Organisation for protection. Earlier this year, Prince Harry forced the Daily Star to retract a claim he had an affair with the Duchess of Cambridge's sister, Pippa Middleton, after complaining to Ipso. The press standards body also ruled that a front-page headline in the Sun claiming the Queen \"backs Brexit\" was \"significantly misleading\". But some media observers, not all of them defenders of the tabloids, have expressed unease at the royals' attempts to control their own image. Writing last year, Joan Smith, the executive director of Hacked Off, questioned some of the Cambridges' claims over paparazzi excesses in relation to George, and argued that no other institution in the UK would be allowed to \"cow the media\". Ipso's decision to uphold a complaint by the duchess in September, on the grounds that a photograph of George riding a police motorbike breached his privacy, also provoked unease that the couple were seeking unprecedented levels of control over their image. The palace and the tabloids have been tentatively rebuilding bridges ever since matters reached an all-time low after the death of Princess Diana. Earl Spencer said the press had \"a direct hand\" in his sister's death and contacted tabloid editors to tell them they would not be welcome at her funeral, after they had been invited by Buckingham Palace. The shock of the princess's death led to the famous temporary truce, with newspaper editors agreeing not to use paparazzi pictures and agreeing to end \"deplorable practices\" in their coverage of the royals. The young princes were allowed substantial privacy while growing up, but remained uncomfortable in their dealings with the media. In 2002, Harry was exposed for drinking underage and using cannabis; two years later, he was involved in a scuffle with reporters as he left a nightclub, reportedly shouting: \"Why don't you leave me alone?\" In 2007, as the relationship between William and Kate Middleton intensified, the then regulator, the Press Complaints Commission, circulated a letter to editors claiming Middleton was being harassed. It worked. The publisher of the Sun and News of the World announced that it would no longer publish paparazzi pictures of her. MPs later said she had been \"hounded\" and subjected to \"persistent harassment\". The couple were largely left alone on honeymoon after their marriage in 2011, but when topless photographs of the duchess emerged the following year the palace was furious, calling them a \"grotesque and totally unjustifiable\" invasion of privacy, and saying it would be \"unthinkable\" for anyone to reproduce them. The photographs did not appear in a mainstream UK publication, but were published in the French magazine Closer and widely available online. That incident illustrated the scale of the difficulty the family faced in controlling their image in a global media market where they were of huge international interest. It was not a British newspaper, for instance, but the US website The Drudge Report that revealed Prince Harry was serving in Afghanistan in 2008, forcing him to be urgently pulled out of Helmand. On that occasion, the British media had been aware of the deployment but agreed to observe a strict media blackout. Even if it is impossible to restrict every outlet, however, it is clear the family will do their best to control what they can. \"[Prince Harry] knows this is not a magic wand and this stuff will continue,\" a royal source said. \"But he no longer felt comfortable in himself having so much written about someone not because of who she is, but because of who he is.\"",
  "title": "Who controls whom? The monarchy v the media",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/monarchy",
    "uk/prince-harry",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Row over Prince Harry's girlfriend reveals fine line between royals' more open press relations and desire for image control",
  "id": "uk-news/2016/nov/08/who-controls-who-the-monarchy-v-the-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}