{
  "content": "Sites including answer service Quora, news service Reddit, Hootsuite and location tracker FourSquare have been affected by outages at Amazon's cloud computing centre in North Virginia, which they rely on to provide their service. Quora was unreachable in the UK on Thursday morning and afternoon. The site is entirely hosted on Amazon's EC2 (Elastic Cloud Computing) service, as are FourSquare and a number of other services. Hootsuite's response was slow, while Reddit's search service was out of action, announcing: \"Amazon is currently experiencing a degradation. They are working on it.\" Amazon's cloud computing status page currently shows problems at the North Virginia centre, which provides services for a number of Web 2.0 companies. The disruption started at about 1.40am on the US West Coast, or 9.40am BST, and have continued since then. Many web-based companies, especially startups, use cloud computing services from companies including Amazon, Google and Microsoft. They are charged only for the computing power that is used, rather than having to make expensive capital investments in servers which could rendered undersized in a few months by the rapid growth that they often aim to achieve. Amazon hasn't given any specific time by which the problem will be fixed. The North Virginia site is one of many cloud computing centres run by Amazon, but such systems are usually designed so that an outage in one centre does not disrupt others \u2013 nor the clients using the service. Amazon has not offered any reason why the problems at North Virginia have not been routed around and the load redistributed to its many other centres.",
  "title": "Amazon outage hits Quora and others",
  "lead": "Outage at Amazon's cloud computing centre has hit sites including Quora, Reddit and FourSquare. By Charles Arthur",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/amazon",
    "technology/efinance",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/cloud-computing",
    "technology/computing",
    "technology/reddit"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2011/apr/21/amazon-outage-quora-foursquare-cloud-computing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}