{
  "content": "Have you noticed that the days are getting shorter? It's not just the seasons, though (unless you're reading this in the southern hemisphere, in which case I envy your lengthening day, of course). It's happening on Twitter too. Where search.twitter.com used to stretch back months (allowing one to discover all sorts of embarrassing tweets), now it only seems to go back a couple of weeks at best - and for some things, only days. You can guess why. Twitter is at present close to a zero-revenue company which has limited funds, and some of those got used up buying Summize - the company that had the idea of archiving tweets for searching first. So maybe it's not bothering to spend extra money buying more storage. (Or maybe, as we'll see, it is - but it's just putting a limit on how far back it will show results. For now.) And at the same time the company is growing like Topsy. It's getting bigger and bigger and nothing seems to stop it. Not even Facebook has been asked by the US State Department to postpone a scheduled piece of maintenance so that people in Iran could protest. (Added to which, don't you think that if the online form of protest during the Iranian election had not been in the form of tweets, and instead in a giant Facebook group, that it would have looked absurd and bathetic? It would probably have degenerated along the lines of \"Moussavi has thrown a sheep at you!\" within hours. Instead with Twitter it had a peculiarly furious dignity.) But Twitter's search is an increasingly valuable archive - not just to tap its real-time content for the present day (though Google's high-ups love that), but also to see how peoples' thoughts have developed. Academics are using it for research to see how ideas get bounced through the medium, and what sort of information people like to pass on. (Turns out it's almost always links to things. Gossip, in short, always has an origin, even if it doesn't have a destination.) Now, the people behind Twitter have remained consistently quiet about how they're going to start making money from their brilliant baby. I'm not surprised: there are literally dozens of ways that they could do it, and the only mistake would be to choose the wrong one in the first place and put too many people off. Charge for use? Probably would turn away most people. Charge for using it via the API (as I suggested last year)? Could work, though as the API is actually 80% of its use, quite how you'd implement those charges is increasingly hard to see - would the companies offering applications that let you post to Twitter charge you, or would it need those unicorns of the web, micropayments? Alternatively, what about charging for verified accounts? Or for commercial accounts? Or how about charging for access to deeper search, perhaps going back further than at present? Or access to trending topics? There are so many choices that it must be hard for the Twitter team to know. One benefit of charging for search: they could start paying for more storage. (Though I suspect that actually they are archiving everyone's tweets, ready for a day when they can make access to them paid-for.) You can imagine a \"freemium\" service: the bigger the subscription you pay, the more detailed the search you can get, and/or the more API calls you can make. Some people would love to be able to get past the present limits on API calls, which can limit how much you can post. But whatever it's going to be, Twitter doesn't have long to figure it out. The URL shortening service bit.ly says it's going to create a real-time news service (based on the links pinging around Twitter, for which it's the default shortener). An interesting idea, sure, which has led people to wonder if Twitter will buy bit.ly (why else invite it to come closer?) so that then it will know what everyone's saying about everything, and also what they're linking to. They'd become like Digg, but without the annoying podcast. The trouble though is that Digg is quite famously one of those zero-billion-dollar companies. Lots of people go there, and it can cover its costs, but you can't see it ever heading in its own right to a stock market flotation. Twitter plus bit.ly - or even bit.ly given Twitter - might be a more reliable place to go to find out what's really interesting online: in the past couple of days, Twitter has had the news about the ETA bomb blasts in Spain before the main news has, and so replaced many peoples' normal breaking news services that one person contacted me breathlessly today to point out that Bobby Robson's death had been first on TV news, not Twitter. Of course, they told me this via Twitter. Which only goes to point out two things: it's becoming a default medium, and that it's now being viewed as surprising if it gets beaten. If all that goes away - which is always possible - then we'll all feel the loss, I think. Which is why more than anything, I wish that Evan Williams would figure out how the hell he's going to make Twitter cover its costs. The waiting is just agony.",
  "title": "An embarassment of potential riches: how should Twitter make money?",
  "lead": "Have you noticed that the days are getting shorter? It's not just the seasons, though (unless you're reading this in the southern hemisphere, in which case I envy your lengthening day, of course). It's happening on Twitter too",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2009/jul/31/twitter-search-financial",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}