{
  "content": "Gossip magazines and tabloid newspapers could find themselves starved of their staple \"kiss-and-tell\" stories following a landmark decision by the court of appeal today. The court dismissed an appeal by author Niema Ash to overturn an injunction against her unauthorised book about the private life of Canadian folk singer Loreena McKennitt. The decision is being described as one of the most significant ever made for the British press. The court ruled that someone's right to protect their private life outweighs someone else's freedom to tell their story, unless there is a \"very real\" public interest. The ruling marks a seismic shift in media law protecting the privacy of the famous, and potentially threatens the lifeblood of tabloids and magazines such as Heat, OK! and Now. \"This means that 'kiss and tell' stories are no longer fair game; it is potentially damaging to all the tabloids and red tops,\" said Caroline Kean, a media libel and litigation lawyer at Wiggin LLP. \"Any celebrity can possibly get an injunction and any publisher, not just books but newspapers and magazines, will in principle be affected - unless there is a real public interest like in the Profumo affair. \"It is a weapon in the hands of those people trying to cover up wrong doing; it is a very powerful tool for them.\" Ms Ash is a former friend and business associate of Ms McKennitt who published a book called Travels with Loreena McKennitt: My Life as a Friend. Ms McKennitt won an injunction last year preventing publication of the book. The book contained a large amount of relatively innocuous material, such as a description of her home, which was deemed by the court to be part of her private life. Ms McKennitt said: \"This is a victory as well for writers who view their work with integrity, and for those who understand that the duty of the press to question government and corporations should not be interfered with nor taken lightly. We also realise that the essence of a free society is the personal autonomy of the individual to think, feel, and interact socially without unwarranted intrusion.\" \"I am very grateful to the courts who have recognized that every person has an equal right to a private life. If an aspect of career places one directly in the public eye or if extraordinary events make an ordinary person newsworthy for a time, we still should have the basic human dignity of privacy for our home and family life.\" Mark Thomson, Ms McKennitt's solicitor from the London law firm Carter-Ruck, added: \"The judgment has helped explain the breadth of privacy rights in this country, the relevance of public domain and accuracy in the material disclosed and the extent to which the public interest is truly served by mere curiosity.\" Today's ruling is the culmination of a number of court decisions in recent years that have slowly eroded the media's right to freedom of expression in favour of privacy law. In 2004, the House of Lords famously found in Naomi Campbell's favour that a publication of a photograph of her leaving a Narcotics Anonymous meeting was an invasion of her privacy - although publication of the fact of her addiction was not. Princess Caroline of Monaco also won a victory at the European court of human rights over pictures, published in Germany, that were taken in a public place. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Court deals blow to gossip titles",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/court-of-appeal"
  ],
  "lead": "Tabloid papers could find themselves starved of 'kiss-and-tell' stories following a court of appeal decision. By Mark Sweney.\n",
  "id": "media/2006/dec/14/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}