{
  "content": "Grant Shapps, the Conservative party chairman was accused of patronising voters last night as he attempted to use Twitter to promote the government's budget. Shapps tweeted a picture that said: \"Bingo. Cutting the Bingo tax and beer duty: To help hardworking people do more of the things they enjoy.\" He asked his followers to re-tweet, \"to spread the word\". Danny Alexander, Shapp's coalition ally and chief secretary of the treasury said the tweet and the ad were patronising. \"I thought it was a spoof at first, it's just pretty extraordinary. It may be our Budget but it's their words, I think it's rather patronising. \"Also I think it actually demeans some quite sensible things. There are good reasons to be supporting bingo, there are good reasons to be encouraging our pub sector to be stronger - that's the analysis behind those measures.\" Stephen Pollard, a conservative columnist for the Daily Express and Daily Telegraph and editor of the Jewish Chronicle said Shapp's use of the word \"they\" to distinguish himself and the Conservative Party from working people was particularly damaging. Other tweeters accused Shapps of being patronising to working people by reducing their hobbies to bingo and beer. Politicians also got involved. Andy Burnham, Labour MP for Leigh and shadow health secretary, said Shapps's tweet reminded him of a Harry Enfield sketch depicting a 1930's television presenter. Tim Burgess, the lead singer of the Charlatans, said it reminded him of a modern version of Marie Antoinette's supposed comment to the poor of Paris. The Observer's political editor, Toby Helm, warned that the ad could prove dangerous for Conservatives' reputation if it continues to circulate. One of the script writers of the The Thick of It, Simon Blackwell, said that if someone had suggested a Conservative ad like this as satire, he would have rejected as too unrealistic. The Guardian's Helen Pidd had just returned from a bingo hall to give her verdict on Shapps's outreach efforts. The Shapp's ad was probably very easy to design at home but it was also very easy to spoof.",
  "title": "Scorn for 'patronising' beer and bingo tweet from Tory chair Grant Shapps",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk-news/budget-2014",
    "politics/grant-shapps",
    "politics/politics",
    "lifeandstyle/beer",
    "technology/twitter",
    "politics/conservatives"
  ],
  "lead": "Tweeters accused Shapps of being patronising to working people by reducing their hobbies to bingo and beer",
  "id": "uk-news/2014/mar/19/grant-shapps-bingo-and-beer-joke-causes-twitter-storm",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}