{
  "content": "It's afternoon at Park-e Laleh, a popular destination for students who attend one of central Tehran's sprawling universities. Seated on a bench under tall trees, Mandana, 22 and Daniel, 34, pose for selfies taken with Mandana's iPhone. While many of these images will end up on Mandana's Facebook and Instagram pages, the couple keeps the more intimate shots to themselves. Even in the leafy nooks of the park, there are rules to observe, and the unmarried pair is never completely alone. Taking selfies allows them to create virtual moments of privacy. \"We feel like just the two of us present,\" Daniel says. \"There's no third person.\" Daniel and Mandana are fans of the selfie, a trend imported from the west that has proliferated among Iran's wired young people. While the actual act of self-photography is far from new, the name and concept of the selfie - photographed, edited and posted online using a smart phone - has gained an ardent following in Iran, thanks in part to an unlikely trendsetter. When US president Barack Obama took a selfie alongside European leaders at Nelson Mandela's funeral late last year, Iranian social network users shared the photograph by the thousands, and the term \"selfie\" entered the local vernacular. High-ranking members of the centrist government, including President Hassan Rouhani, have also been known to post selfies, despite the regime's ambivalent attitude toward social networking. Since the average Iranian must pay at least two monthly wages to acquire a smart phone, the phenomenon is limited mostly to middle and upper-class youth, who have taken to the fad with the same gusto with which they previously embraced leggings, neon-colored clothing and plastic surgery. Editing software like Photoshop is cheap and widely available in Iran due to an absence of copyright laws, and many selfies undergo a meticulous touch-up process before they are posted online. While the exact number of selfies circulating on Iranian social networks is difficult to determine, users say they comprise a majority of postings on Instagram. The social app has over one million users in Iran according to cafebazaar, an alternative platform 85% of Iranians use to download apps. While an estimated 82% of these Instagram users are male, the users interviewed for this article said women post more selfies than men. \"Maybe it's because we're not free from hijab, so this type of self-presentation is very important for us,\" says Hedieh, a fourth year psychology student at Azad University. Many secular women use the selfie as a virtual tool that allows them to present themselves in public the way they want to be seen, without following the Islamic dress code. The recent controversy around My Stealthy Freedom, a Facebook page inviting Iranian women to share their views on hijab, illustrates the attitudes of these women as well as the inflexibility of the Islamic regime. When the page attracted nearly half a million likes and hundreds of hijab-free selfies, Iran's state media initiated a smear campaign against the page's London-based founder Masih Alinejad, calling her a \"whore\" and claiming she had been drugged and gang-raped in front of her son. The fear of losing cultural control over Iran's population, especially women and youth, is also behind an effort by the country's hard-line political camp to block Instagram, which was added to the government's list of banned web sites in a 27 May court order. However, the process of filtering sites like Instagram and WhatsApp portends a significant challenge for Iran's cyber police, says Nariman Gharib, an Iranian researcher based in London mapping Internet and censorship trends in Iran. \"If they want to block Instagram, they might also have to block thousands of websites around the world, because those websites are hosted on the same servers,\" Gharib says. Aside from the regime's unchanging attitude towards Internet freedom, selfie fans also face criticism from peers who worry that the practice harms users' self-image. \"It comes from the same place as the urge to get a nose job or lip enhancement surgery,\" says Hedieh. \"It's exhibitionism and not intimacy, because the selfies get seriously edited before they get posted.\" Others worry that selfies encourage exhibitionist behavior in a culture already prone to narcissism. \"Hyper individualism is sinking into everything around us in Tehran,\" says Muriel, a sociology student who recently returned to Iran from studies in the UK. \"It's as if nothing in the world is more important than the person and their selfie.\" \"This kind of photography creates a space that wouldn't otherwise exist,\" adds Hedieh. \"When you share [a selfie], you allow yourself to be judged by the number of likes.\" Naz-Naz, a nickname for a musician who regularly posts selfies to an audience of 17,000 Facebook followers, has no time for such criticism. She posts several photos a day, some depicting her in sultry poses and various stages of undress, and brushes off the comments of those who call her selfies vulgar. \"I like to take photos of myself, I like to post them and I want people to like them,\" she says, adding that many people like her page because of her music, not because of her face and body. \"Even if it is vulgar, why shouldn't I do it? People are jealous and nosy if they have a problem with it.\"",
  "title": "Selfie culture a new battleground for the Iranian regime",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/iran",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/instagram",
    "technology/facebook",
    "world/hassan-rouhani",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "world/middleeast"
  ],
  "lead": "Self photography is gaining in popularity in \nIran and whilst some relish the opportunity to been seen on the \nInternet, others worry it's contributing to the culture of narcissism",
  "id": "world/iran-blog/2014/jun/13/selfie-culture-a-new-battleground-for-the-iranian-regime",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}