{
  "content": "Alan Rusbridger describes the publication of pictures of Sara Cox in the Sunday People as a \"blatant and cynical breach of the PCC code\" (Taming the beast, Media, February 18). Mr Rusbridger's conspiracy theories may not allow him to believe this, but the fact is that no tabloid editor would knowingly break the rules of the PCC. The truth is that I made a mistake, simple as that. It was a mistake based on information from a well-known and extremely experienced photojournalist about the circumstances in which the pic ture was taken, information which led me to believe there was no danger of breaching the PCC code of practice. After we published the pictures, Sara Cox's representatives complained to the PCC and asked for an apology, which we gave after discovering the facts were different from what we had been led to believe. The exact wording of this apology, along with its location, size and headline, was agreed by Sara Cox's people in advance of publication, and their complaint to the PCC was resolved by agreement. Mr Rusbridger also refers to a \"40,000 rise in circulation\" on the day the pictures were published. I can only assume that this figure has been lifted from an equally inaccurate story in Private Eye, as the actual increase on October 14 was just over 2,500 copies. Like Mr Rusbridger, I made a mistake. Bad though it may have been, it was just that. It is unworthy of Mr Rusbridger to try to twist the facts to suit his argument, and to attribute motives to me that I simply do not have. Neil Wallis Editor, Sunday People",
  "title": "Letters: The tabloid editor, the DJ and the PCC",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/thepeople",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "media/pcc",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Mr Rusbridger's conspiracy theories may not allow him to believe this, but the fact is that no tabloid editor would knowingly break the rules of the PCC, writes Neil Wallis, editor of the Sunday People.",
  "id": "media/2002/feb/20/thepeople.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}