{
  "content": "British internet users could face new restrictions on what they can say on internet discussion boards after a UK internet service provider (ISP) won a court case against two popular websites. Finance sites Motley Fool and Interactive Investor will now be forced to reveal the identity of an anonymous user of their services who has, the ISP claims, defamed the company and its employees. The weekly webzine NTK summed up the result: \"the court decided that Motley and II could not protect their sources as newspapers can, because they imposed no editorial control over their forums. So British law now says UK websites can be sued for libel (because they are publishers) and be compelled to hand over personal details (because they aren't). Nice.\" The ISP, Leeds-based Totalise, took its legal action with the aim of starting a libel action against Zeddust, the anonymous user. The judge in the case, Mr Justice Robert Owen, decided web portals cannot protect their sources in the way that newspapers and other print publications can, mainly because of the lack of editorial controls over their forums. Ironically, Totalise could have opened itself up to a bundle of trouble since it, along with most other ISPs in the UK, is now open to legal action from potential litigants out to discover the identity of users who defame other people, or organisations, on their service. Litigation for libel is big business in the US, and increasingly so in the UK, and lawsuits can result in sizeable payouts. Newspapers are an easy target, whereas anonymous posters to a financial services web portal are not. That could now change if ISPs can be forced to reveal the identity of anonymous posters - who may, or may not, then be worth suing. Alistair Kelman, a barrister specialising in IT matters, said he was not surprised by the decision in the Totalise case. \"They used Section 10 of the Contempt of Court Act, 1981, to force the disclosure of the identity of Zeddust, the character that posted the allegedly defamatory messages on the two sites,\" he said, adding that this is what he would have expected any good law firm to do. \"They also used the decision on the Norwich Pharmacal Co v Customs and Excise Commissioners of 1974 as a precedent to say that innocent parties could be forced to disclose the identity of wrongdoers, which is something, again, I would have expected Totalise's solicitors to pursue,\" he said. Kelman added that the law despises a vacuum, and the Totalise case solves a number of questions that have been asked of the UK's internet industry. \"Basically this case involved, on the one hand, the US Freedom of Information Act,\" he said, referring to Motley Fool's US origins, \"and on the other hand, the law relating to defamation.\" Kelman said that the Freedom of Information Act is often misunderstood, even in the US. \"It says that people have the freedom to pretty much say what they like, but it doesn't protect them from the consequences. They must reap the consequences if it proves defamatory. The act does not protect against defamation,\" he said. Thanks to the court's decision, Motley Fool and Internet Investor must now release the identity of the mysterious Zeddust - assuming he, or she, provided accurate information when signing up - to Totalise's solicitors. This will allow the law firm to prepare a libel case against the not-so-anonymous poster, who may live to regret his, or her, actions. The expected libel case could also change the ballgame for web portals which, until now, have allowed relatively unmoderated posting of messages to their forums. The portals may now be forced to follow the model adopted by many internet mailing lists, where a moderator checks all the postings before releasing them to the general public. This may prove to be a death knell for many forums, as the extra expense of monitoring postings from members could be the final straw in what has now become a low profits industry. This is the latest in a series of cases which have gradually impinged on the internet, once regarded by many of its users as a space free of laws. It has its parallels with a similar case in Germany involving Compuserve, another ISP, in the mid-1990s, although it took until 1998 for the case to reach the courts. In that case, Felix Somm, the former head of CompuServe's German operation, stood trial accused of distributing pornography across the internet. He did not do this personally, of course, but was prosecuted because he was, at the time, in charge of CompuServe Germany, which allowed access to the Usenet and its myriad discussion forums. Some of those forums gave access to illegal pornographic and Nazi material. The case was crucial for the ISP industry as German law found that Somm, rather than CompuServe Germany, was responsible for the company's actions. Although found guilty then, the 13 guilty verdicts against him were later overturned. The state successfully said that Somm should be held responsible for the ISP's actions in allowing open access to the Usenet. The Bavarian government had accused CompuServe of breaking the law by allowing German online users access to illegal material on the internet back in 1995. The move resulted in CompuServe having to \"regionalise\" its access facilities to ensure its ability to meet local legal requirements. Not unexpectedly, the German case drew a lot of criticism. In 1997, a coalition of civil liberties organisations from a dozen countries wrote to the then German Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, to express their concern about Somm's prosecution. The letter stated the prosecution of Somm was \"ill-advised for both technical and regulatory reasons\" and will \"have a harmful impact on internet users around the world.\"",
  "title": "End of the anonymous net",
  "lead": "A little-noticed lawsuit could send shockwaves through the UK net industry, reports Steve Gold",
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2001/mar/22/onlinesupplement.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}