{
  "content": "When is a snoopers' charter not a snooping charter? When David Cameron and his stooge Nick Clegg call it the data retention and investigation powers bill (Surveillance bill rushed through in a day, 16 July). The European court of justice decided in April that the blanket surveillance by the state, which forced companies to retain communications data for 12 years, must stop. In order to circumvent the ruling, David Cameron is creating a new law without either parliamentary oversight or scrutiny, so as to keep us \"safe from criminals and terrorists\". Remember, people, the terrorists want to destroy your freedom. In order to combat this we need to record all your communications, track you and record you wherever you go. To protect your freedom. Hmm. Will this legislation be applied to companies? Will it apply to multinationals that supply weapons to terrorists? Will it apply to tax dodgers? Will it apply to politicians? No? Thought not. This draconian law isn't happening in other EU countries, so why just the UK? It would seem that Barack Obama and the NSA's influence trumps everything, even EU law \u2013 well, in this country anyway. Bets for when this data, which is being gathered to keep us \"safe\", will be sold to Yahoo or Google? Our free speech has been eroded, our worker rights have been watered down, our right to demonstrate is being taken from us and now Cameron wants to remove our right to strike. Let us not forget either that Boris Johnson's water cannons await, lest anyone make the mistake and happen to believe we live in a democracy. All this from an unelected prime minister and government. He has no mandate for spying on us, and what is worse is that the \"opposition\" have signed up for the snooping charter, sight unseen. In 1979 Stiff Little Fingers sang \"They take away our freedom in the name of liberty\". They were singing about the terrorists; 35 years later it could equally apply to our government. Julie Partridge London \u2022 In principle, the proposals are important for national security and law enforcement. It is essential that any intrusion into a citizen's private affairs is minimal, proportionate to the benefits to society as a whole, and properly controlled and supervised. Hasty legislation has often proved to be badly flawed. Dr Martyn Thomas Institution of Engineering and Technology \u2022 Two interesting contrasting stories on 11 July. One, British PM David Cameron is to rush through emergency law to allow spying on us. Two, German chancellor Angela Merkel orders CIA official out of the country because the US refuses to cooperate over spying allegations, including spying on her own mobile phone. We were recently told from on high (by Gove, possibly?), that \"British\" values included things like the rule of law, democracy and human rights. It looks like, when it comes to defending these values, it is a case of Germany 7, England 1. William Hinds York \u2022 Britons never never never shall be slaves as long as we are willing to gag, blindfold and shackle ourselves voluntarily to preserve our inner freedom and moral superiority. John Bird London",
  "title": "Drip by drip, they take away our freedom in the name of liberty | @guardianletters",
  "lead": " In 1979 Stiff Little Fingers sang 'They take away our freedom in the name of liberty'. They were singing about the terrorists; 35 years later it could equally apply to our government",
  "tags": [
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "world/surveillance",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/germany",
    "world/europe-news",
    "world/world",
    "politics/davidcameron",
    "politics/politics",
    "us-news/us-foreign-policy",
    "us-news/us-news",
    "us-news/us-politics",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2014/jul/16/drip-take-away-freedom-liberty",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}