{
  "content": "Sir Paul McCartney has separated from Heather Mills McCartney, the second wife he fell for passionately but who struggled to win the approval of his family or the popular press. The couple announced their split yesterday after less than four years of marriage in a statement that blamed their inability to conduct a \"normal\" relationship on the \"constant intrusion into our private lives\". But their parting shot at the media only triggered a new round of speculation about how much of Sir Paul's estimated \u00a3800m fortune Ms Mills McCartney could claim as the mother of their two-year-old daughter, Beatrice Milly. Despite the bulk of the former Beatle's fortune being acquired well before meeting the former underwear model at a charity function seven years ago, divorce lawyers estimated that the 38-year-old, who once slept rough under Waterloo Bridge, could pocket up to \u00a3200m. According to Ms Mills McCartney, Sir Paul, who is 64 next month, refused to sign a prenuptial agreement before their marriage in June 2002. Sir Paul took to his website to dismiss suggestions that his second wife had married him for money: \"There is not an ounce of truth in this. She is a very generous person who spends most of her time trying to help others in greater need than herself. I'm very sad to see that some insensitive people would choose a moment like this to spread these vicious rumours.\" His publicist refused to comment on whether the couple planned to divorce, but lawyers said the size of any settlement would depend on the House of Lords verdict due next Wednesday in a landmark case for short marriages. The law lords are being asked to consider a \u00a35m award to the wife of Alan Miller, a City fund manager worth \u00a320m, after their childless marriage lasted less than three years. If the 25% award is upheld, Ms Mills McCartney could easily claim a similar slice of Sir Paul's fortune. He made \u00a348.5m last year from record sales and his US tour. \"My gut feeling is that the decision in Miller v Miller will be upheld, which means that Lady McCartney could be looking for something like \u00a3200m. She may even try to get more,\" said Alan Kaufman of Finers Stephens Innocent. Stephen Foster of Stewarts said: \"It is likely to be a very significant award, because we are talking about a child. I wouldn't be shocked if it was as much as \u00a3100m.\" Insiders believe a generous out-of-court settlement could be linked to a confidentiality clause preventing either party from going public on what has been reported as a stormy marriage. Rumours of a split began in earnest when Sir Paul, famously said to have only spent one night and a nine-day spell in jail apart from his first wife Linda, was pictured alone on holiday near Monaco. Ms Mills McCartney publicly insisted they were \"together 100%\" but claimed she was staying in Hove, East Sussex, and not with her husband to avoid the paparazzi as she recuperated from a leg operation. 'Daily pressures' When the Daily Mirror, the host of the dinner where they met, yesterday reported that they were to part, they confirmed their separation: \"Having tried exceptionally hard to make our relationship work given the daily pressures surrounding us, it is with sadness that we have decided to go our separate ways. Our parting is amicable and both of us still care about each other very much but have found it increasingly difficult to maintain a normal relationship with constant intrusion into our private lives, and we have actively tried to protect the privacy of our child.\" The publicist Max Clifford, who knows Ms Mills McCartney through her disability charity work but has never represented her or Sir Paul, poured scorn on the couple's claim that media intrusion had caused serious problems in their relationship. \"Heather Mills craved fame,\" he said. \"She married one of the most famous men on the planet which means you know you're going to have a massive amount of fame and attention and she loved every minute of it. The one thing Heather has never been able to achieve is popularity. I think that rankles an awful lot with her. She genuinely thought she could do her own thing, make her own name and win the hearts and minds of the British public by doing her own thing, as Paul McCartney has done. She's never done that. \"For Heather Mills, read Victoria Beckham. A lot of women who are married to famous people who are very popular find it very difficult because there's a lot of resentment towards them.\" Backstory Sir Paul McCartney and Heather Mills met in 1999 at a dinner hosted by the Daily Mirror to celebrate people with inspiring life stories. Linda, his wife of 29 years, had died from cancer the previous year. McCartney later said he had fallen for Mills immediately and phoned her to talk about charity work. A former model, Mills became involved with charitable causes after losing a leg when she was knocked down by a police motorcyclist in 1993. The pair went public with their relationship in March 2000 and Sir Paul proposed during a holiday in the Lake District the next year. They married in June 2002 at a castle in Ireland. Beatrice Milly was born in October 2003. Tabloids reported that Sir Paul's three children from his first marriage - musician James, photographer Mary, and fashion designer Stella - disapproved of the match. While this was denied, some problems were acknowledged by Sir Paul when he admitted before his wedding that a second marriage was \"hard for the children\".",
  "title": "McCartneys split after four years of marriage with attack on 'constant intrusion' by media",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/uk",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/television",
    "music/paulmccartney",
    "music/music",
    "culture/culture",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "uk/heather-mills"
  ],
  "lead": "Sir Paul McCartney has separated from his second wife Heather Mills McCartney, blaming their inability to conduct a 'normal' relationship on the 'constant intrusion into our private lives'. By Patrick Barkham.",
  "id": "uk/2006/may/18/media.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}