{
  "content": "The biggest question mark over Facebook as an investment \u2013 at least at a price valuing the company at $77bn to $96bn \u2013 was raised by Sir Martin Sorrell, chief executive of the advertising giant WPP, who warned: \"You interrupt social conversations at your peril.\" It's a critical point. Facebook is undoubtedly a social and conversational phenomenon \u2013 900 million monthly users, 526 million daily users, 3.2bn likes and comments a day in the first quarter of this year \u2013 but, as the IPO roadshow begins, how hard can this population be milked for advertising revenues before users decide corporate messages are a turnoff? There's no easy answer. The letter from founder Mark Zuckerberg to potential investors in the flotation prospectus describes a happy place where \"as people share more, they have access to more opinions from the people they trust about the products and services they use\". That sounds harmless enough, but the proposition being sold to advertisers carries a harder edge: \"Advertisers can specify that we show their ads to a subset of our users based on demographic factors and specific interests that they have chosen to share with us on Facebook or by using the Like button around the web.\" In other words, the information users provide to Facebook will be dissected for the benefit of advertisers. Most users will be prepared to accept this arrangement up to a point, since Facebook costs nothing to use and most people understand there's no such thing as an entirely free lunch. Some users may even welcome receiving targeted advertising, but common sense suggests goodwill towards an advertising-heavy Facebook will not be boundless. The line between popular social service and vulgar commercial medium could turn out to be thin. Don't forget these are still early days: Facebook is only seven years old. That should also be a reminder that tastes and technology change quickly in the digital age. Facebook already finds itself working overtime to make its service more friendly for smartphones. And Google, a larger online monster, is trying to grab a slice of the action in social networking. Whizzkid teenage programmers who dream of being the next Zuckerberg will have their own visions of alternative networks. In the end, one has to look at the numbers to weigh the risks versus potential rewards. Operating profits of $1.7bn were generated on revenues of $3.7bn last year. The implied profit margin is spectacular, but to justify a valuation of about $90bn you probably have to believe that top-line profits (ie, before taxes) can double, double again in short order and then keep on rising. That would be going some. Already there are signs that growth rates could be erratic. Revenues and profits were both lower in the first three months of this year than in the final three months of 2011. Advertisers' desire to spend heavily in the runup to Christmas was the main (plausible) explanation, but it could be that Facebook is already close to satisfying demand in established markets such as North America. Consider, too, the reason why Facebook is floating. It is not because the company needs new capital; it's generating plenty. Instead, as Zuckerberg puts it: \"We're going public for our employees and our investors. We made a commitment to them when gave them equity that we'd work hard to make it worth a lot and make it liquid, and this IPO is fulfilling our commitment.\" Full marks for honesty, but outsiders should pause for thought before enriching the insiders. Will the act of flotation dilute Facebook's entrepreneurial character as programmers contemplate the worth of shares that can be turned into cash? Buyers at the flotation risk coming to the Facebook story after the best chapters have been written.",
  "title": "Facebook is a phenomenon, but is it a good investment?",
  "lead": "How hard can users be milked for advertising revenues before they decide corporate messages are a turnoff?",
  "tags": [
    "business/ipos",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "business/nils-pratley-on-finance/2012/may/07/is-facebook-a-good-investment",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}