{
  "content": "I've been collecting a list of stories about targeted advertising, ISPs, legislation and so on in my browser for some weeks now (which I'll dump at the end here), but the most interesting I've seen lately comes (via John Naughton) from Landon Fuller, who discovered something interesting about the Meraki system, which provides free wireless access throughout San Francisco, using the network name \"Free The Net\". However... I was surprised that Meraki is adding advertising to my web site (where's my cut?), but that's just the beginning. Meraki is sharing your location with every site you visit. To display their advertising, Meraki adds a small piece of JavaScript to every page... This will be familiar to Phorm-watchers, as that's how the company experimented with tracking in an (undisclosed) trial with BT in 2006. Fuller notes the dangers inherent in this: This is a new twist on the cross site scripting problem -- because Meraki's script is injected directly into the site that I'm visiting, a simple piece of javascript, added by the web page's author, can fish out your current location. In fact, I wrote a small piece of javascript to do just that. If you're browsing from a Meraki wireless access point, Where's Waldo will automatically redirect you to a Google Map of your location. Try it out. Once a page has your location, there's nothing to prevent your browser from sending the data somewhere else. Phorm's system is now focussing on cookies, of course, but this is an interesting demonstration that it's not alone in wanting to serve targeted ads. Far from it: let's have a roundup of targeted advertising fun from all over. A member of the New York assembly wants to make it a crime for (certain) web companies to use personal information about you for advertising without your consent. In New York, anyway, but since this is the interweb, complying in NY would mean complying everywhere (in the US). Search engines should delete data after six months, even if not based in Europe, says EU privacy panel NY Times Bits blog: how should ISPs tell you if they want to track your surfing? (I've dropped the Map CapiTaliSatioN that American papers specialise in.) Mentions a company called NebuAd, which \"started operation last fall\" (= autumn) and \"seems to be going out of its way to avoid being noticed by the users it monitors\". The writer notes that \"It's early, but so far Phorm appears to be more committed to openness than NebuAd.\" One to watch out for.",
  "title": "Targeted ads and injected Javascript? You're in San Francisco!",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "Lest anyone think that targeted ads are an invention unique to Phorm, a San Francisco wireless network does them too - sneakily",
  "id": "technology/blog/2008/apr/15/targetedadsandinjectedjava",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}