{
  "content": "Nearly a quarter of children between the ages of eight and 12 are evading the age restrictions imposed by social networking sites Facebook, Bebo and MySpace, a poll of young people revealed last night. The results suggest that more than 750,000 children are illicitly using the sites - which are supposed to be limited to teenagers and adults - potentially exposing them to risky communications with strangers. The poll of 1,000 children was commissioned by Garlik, an online information company, which said parents are responding by secretly logging on to their children's social networking pages to detect any reckless online behaviour. A parallel poll of 1,000 parents found 72% try to protect their children by monitoring the contacts they make online. It found 26% of parents have set up their own social networking page from which they can spy on the children's activities. Tom Ilube, chief executive of Garlik, said: \"The fact that parents feel compelled to monitor their children on this scale should send a powerful message to the big social networking sites. \"With three quarters of a million underage users in the UK, Facebook, MySpace and Bebo need to take their own age restriction policies far more seriously to help allay parents' real fears.\" Facebook and Bebo set a minimum age limit of 13 for users to register online and Myspace sets the limit at 14. The poll found children spend an average of one hour a day on social networking sites. About a quarter of eight- to 15-year-olds admitted having strangers as friends on their social networking page. A fifth claimed to have met strangers they had encountered online. Two-thirds said they posted personal information on their pages, including their school and their mobile phone number. Ilube added: \"Children are at the vanguard of the social networking phenomenon, using sites such as Facebook and Bebo in the same way other generations used the telephone. With the summer holidays upon us and kids spending hours on the internet, busy parents can't be expected to monitor their children's activities all the time.\" The poll of parents found 58% said they had become more diligent than a year ago at monitoring their children's use of social networking sites, and 89% said they had spoken to their children about the dangers involved.",
  "title": "Facebook: Children evade social websites' age limits",
  "lead": "A new poll suggests that more than 750,000 children are illicitly using Facebook, Bebo and MySpace. By John Carvel",
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/myspace",
    "technology/bebo",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/youngpeople",
    "society/society",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/data-computer-security"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2008/aug/07/socialnetworking.facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}