{
  "content": "At this point the Tech 128 gets a bit closer to home: internet porn, drugs, um ... Microsoft and tablets. Now read on, but be ready to hit the \"filter\" button at any time if you feel uncomfortable. Sex/filters/Cameron porn Under pressure from campaigners, the UK prime minister declared that Something Must Be Done About Porn, where \"porn\" seemed to be hazily defined. It's an idea that has been pushed since at least 2011, when ISPs agreed to make them \"opt in\". (In Australia, it was going to be opt-out, and then it suddenly wasn't. Never let it be said that Australian politicians can't change their mind.) By July, Cameron had the bit between his teeth and announced that by the end of 2014 ISPs would present all internet users with an \"unavoidable choice\" on whether to use filters. He also pressured Google, Bing and Yahoo to block searches for illegal sites online - something with which Google finally complied in November. The trouble with filters, of course, is that they aren't perfect - particularly computer-based ones. Expect trouble over this. Silk Road What's a bitcoin useful for? Often, it seemed, buying online drugs and illegal goods/services (including, if the affidavits around some of the arrests are to be believed, assassinations) at the marketplace hidden in the depths of the dark web. Accessible through the anonymous Tor network and trading in virtual bitcoin currency, Silk Road became a byword for all things stealthy and outside the ambit of the authorities. Until, that is, the FBI shut it down and replaced its front page with a sign saying \"THIS HIDDEN SITE HAS BEEN SEIZED\" \u2013 raising the obvious question of how the site could really be hidden if you were looking at it, and quite what \"seized\" means in the context of a virtual object.  The closing of Silk Road didn't make much difference: replacements, including one called Black Market Reloaded, sprang up almost overnight. Smart cities Down these smart streets a man (or woman) must go ... to find a city that's smart. Getting sensors and intelligence embedded into the way that huge conurbations work is becoming imperative as we have more, and newer, super-cities. Seoul, South Korea, is in the lead here, in trying to capture real-time traffic information. More broadly, you can also look at the Chinese government's perhaps reluctant decision to make air quality data available as a step towards smarter cities in the Three Kingdoms \u2013 try the China Air Quality Index app (iPhone orAndroid).  Smart cities, however, need planning on a big scale to get them right: you don't want to decide after your roads are built that you need embedded sensors at every crossing. Equally, if you plan too early you can lock yourself into redundant technologies. The makers of smart cities are just grappling with the challenges ahead. Smartwatches &amp; wearable tech Tracking our every twitch, step and move, fitness trackers and wearable sensors proliferated in 2013, but smartwatches generally failed to live up to the hype.  Rumours of an Apple \"iWatch\" surfaced in February when Bruce Tognazzini, one of its earliest employees, blogged about the idea \u2013 breaking a long silence. Tognazzini is well-connected, and so many hares began running. When Apple applied for an iWatch trademark in Japan, and supplier figures began surfacing, it seemed all but certain that there would be a new product after the iPhone and iPad. There wasn't \u2013 so Samsung leapt in to fill the nonexistent gap with its Galaxy Gear, which was universally reviled by reviewers, leaving even its own executives talking of \"unripe fruit\". Sony too tried to capture peoples' attention with a smartwatch \u2013 and mostly failed. In fact the best-selling smartwatch of the year came from Pebble, maker of the eponymous smartwatch funded through a Kickstarter project in 2012 that had 85,000 buyers. Thousands more have been sold since it went on sale in some US supermarkets. So ironically, a tiny company funded through crowdsourcing has had more success here than a giant mega-corporation. Isn't that the most encouraging technology story of the year? Snapchat Take a picture or video, decide how long, between 1 to 10 seconds, you want the recipient to view it for and then draw on top of it and/or add a caption. It's no-strings-attached picture messaging, as once viewed it is gone forever. The 23-year-old founder reportedly rejected a $3bn buyout offer from Facebook earlier this year.  Is that all there is to Snapchat? Well, in effect, yes; but that's a lot right there. It captures the modern desire for some sort of transience, in a world where it seems like everything we do is recorded permanently whether by us or by something else. The question is, will transience be enough to give Snapchat staying power? Sonos Play One Wireless music is one of those things that seems like it has been promised forever. Sonos has been working away at it. While its earlier products had been expensive, in 2013 it released two products \u2013 the PlayBar and Sonos One \u2013 which suggested that good-quality sound with wireless remote control and internet connectivity at an affordable price weren't mutually exclusive. The Play One in particular, for \u00a3169/$199, will fill a good-sized room with solid sound. Spotify 2013 has been a big year for Spotify \u2013 but, at least to start with, not all the news was good. The company was forced to fight off competition from Google and Apple, who each launched their own streaming music services in the summer. Apple's iTunes Radio remains US-only for the time being, but Google Play Music All Access presented a more serious competitor \u2013 if not a name which rolls off the tongue \u2013 offering much the same service as Spotify's premium package for the same price. As the summer drew on, Spotify came under pressure from a second direction, with Radiohead frontman Thom Yorke criticising the company for underpaying artists. Yorke withdrew all of the music by his side project Atoms for Peace from the site in protest, tweeting: \"Make no mistake, new artists you discover on Spotify will not get paid. Meanwhile shareholders will shortly be rolling in it. Simples.\" But by the autumn, the service was fighting back. It launched an all-out PR blitz to convince artists that it was actually paying a fair rate: \"Spotify has now paid out a total of more than $1 Billion USD in royalties to-date, $500 Million USD of which we paid in 2013 alone!\" And then, in December, it massively increased its free offering, letting users on mobile phones stream their playlists for free \u2013 but only in \"shuffle\" mode. To top it off, it announced an exclusive deal with Led Zeppelin as the only streaming service carrying their music. Steve Ballmer Having been the chief executive that people (especially Microsoft investors) loved to hate, Steve Ballmer's abrupt announcement in August that he was going to step down within the next 12 months came as a shock. Ballmer had been in charge since January 2000, when he took over from Bill Gates. In an emotional farewell speech at the last all-hands company meeting he would lead, Ballmer talked of the company as his \"fourth child\" and said: \"Children leave the home, but I guess in this case I'm leaving the home.\" It transpired that he had been forced out by a combination of the board and activist investors weary of seeing the share price go nowhere while Google and Apple capitalised on the smartphone revolution to see their valuations rise \u2013 Google's market capitalisation (the aggregate value of all its shares, nominally the market's guess of its total future profits) passed Microsoft's back in October 2012. The search is now on for a new chief executive, amid a Ballmer-driven reorganisation into a \"devices and services\" company which also removes the silos that led to divisional infighting. The question is, will the new leader come from inside or outside the company? And how will she or he make a mark on the company? Even though Office and Windows are huge moneyspinners, their base is threatened by the PC slowdown and the rise of tablets.  Some have suggested that Stephen Elop, once leader of the Office division before he left to head Finnish handset maker Nokia, will be next in line. Certainly he has the experience in both software and hardware \u2013 and Microsoft is buying Nokia's handset business. For many, he's the favourite. Stickers You have a messaging app. You need it to make money. You can't charge for the app because all the other messaging apps are free. What do you do? The answer: stickers. At least that's the answer used by Line and others. The advantage of stickers (which give users paid-for extra emoticons) is that you can keep coming up with new ones, and they tie users to you to some extent. BlackBerry's BBM is free. Should we count the hours until it starts offering stickers or their ilk?  Tablet explosion! Budget tablets available for a little as \u00a330 forced touchscreen computers into the mainstream, as the intersection of price and performance meant affordable tablets could replace traditional computers for most people. In a number of cases the cheap tablets were being used as replacements for TV sets or DVD players, but certainly for consuming digital content. And at the higher end, tablets could replace key functions of a \"PC\" \u2013 and so take over its tasks, or do things it couldn't. The market for \"PCs\" - desktops, and laptops with fixed keyboards - has hit maturity, research companies concluded. Tesco's Hudl A surprise budget tablet entry from supermarket Tesco, the Hudl proved that an affordable tablet could provide a decent experience and perform what most people needed most of the time. We'll have to wait for 2014 for sales figures, but the Hudl could establish itself in the UK alongside other smaller tablets. Thorsten Heins When Thorsten Heins was appointed chief executive of RIM (as it was then known) in January 2012, replacing co-chief executives (and founder) Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie, many people asked \"Thorsten Who?\" He had been the chief operating officer \u2013 in effect, the man who got the trains to run on time. Trouble was, the trains at RIM (which rebranded itself BlackBerry in January 2013) were running very late. Its BB10 software for its new handsets arrived a year behind schedule in January, and on the Z10 \u2013 a touchscreen smartphone that nobody wanted.  However, Heins made a name for himself with some outspoken comments: in March he called the iPhone \"outdated\" because, he said, their users couldn't multitask without changing app (apparently nobody had told him about Apple's Notification Centre). In that interview he acknowledged that \"we absolutely need BB10 to turn us around\". In April he said that in five years, \"I don't think there'll be a reason to have a tablet any more\" and that \"tablets themselves are not a good business model\". But he added that \"in five years, I see BlackBerry [being] the absolute leader in mobile computing \u2013 that's what we're aiming for.\"  Oh well. Things got worse, and in November Heins was fired as a $4.7bn bid by Fairfax Holdings collapsed. The company brokered $1bn in cheap convertible debt. It has also stopped making the PlayBook tablet. Tim Cook &amp; Jony Ive Apple's chief executive Tim Cook must be good at ignoring outside noise, because there was plenty of it in 2013: Apple hadn't invented anything for years (after all, the iPhone and iPad came out on a three-year cycle and now there was nothing), the iPhone didn't have 99% of the market, and what's more, he wasn't Steve Jobs. Even Carl Icahn saw the chance to prod a bit, buying some Apple stock and then \u2013 as is his wont \u2013 complaining that it should pay bigger dividends, especially from its cash pile.  Cook had some uncomfortable moments, appearing before the US Congress to defend Apple's tax arrangements (including a jaw-dropping Irish company which didn't seem to be housed in Ireland). Apple put out an advert whose message (\"this is what we do\") seemed more aimed at its own staff, to remind them what they did, than actual buyers. Then in June the new iOS 7 software design was unveiled: it was the first time Jony Ive, Apple's famous head of hardware design, had had his hands on the pixels too. Some loved it, others hated it, but it seemed to match the modern sensibility better than the now-ageing faux-leather of its six-year-old predecessor.  Ive then had phones to match \u2013 the 5S, unlockable with a fingerprint, and the cheaper (but not that much cheaper) 5C, where the \"C\" stands for colour. A biography of Ive by Leander Kahney revealed him as a key element and, sometimes, obstacle in Apple's development of new products, but one who is always thinking a few years ahead: his team had been working on designs for an MP3 player long before 2001 when the iPod was released. Now Cook and Ive face the tough task of satisfying people in 2014. No doubt they'll fail with many \u2013 while pleasing many others. Tinder Swipe narcissistically through pictures of the opposite sex in your local area who are also Tinder users. If you would consider \"getting to know\" a person you can swipe the other direction and if said person reciprocates then you two are deemed a match and you can start a chat together. Tinder gave the lie to the idea that location date-matching could only be done for same-sex couples using Grindr.  Toca Builders Apps for children are a sort of hinterland: overlooked by many big-name publications, but focussed on furiously by app makers who realise they could make tons of money from them. Toca Boca is one of the most successful makers of childrens' apps, and has had more than 40m downloads in total since starting in March 2011. Its newest app is Toca Builders - which is like Minecraft without the gaming. (Yes, Minecraft doesn't have much gaming to start with. Let's move on.) Bj\u00f6rn Jefferey, its chief executive, says: \"As an app developer, our intention is never to replace the parent, and I've never met a developer who tries to replace physical play with digital toys. The two aren't mutually exclusive, and they can even be combined.\" To which we say: is that some sort of hint? Last instalment tomorrow",
  "title": "Tech 128: Silk Road, Spotify and Tinder",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/spotify",
    "technology/silk-road",
    "technology/smartwatches",
    "technology/wearable-technology",
    "technology/snapchat",
    "technology/steve-ballmer",
    "technology/tablet-computer",
    "technology/tim-cook",
    "technology/jonathan-ive"
  ],
  "lead": "From Cameron's opt-in for internet porn, and the FBI shutting down an online drugs marketplace, to children's apps. <a href=\"http://www.theguardian.com/profile/alex-hern\">Alex Hern, <a href=\"http://www.theguardian.com/profile/samuel-gibbs\">Samuel Gibbs, <a href=\"http://www.theguardian.com/profile/charlesarthur\">Charles Arthur, <a href=\"http://www.theguardian.com/profile/siraj-datoo\">Siraj Datoo and Kirsty Beckingham",
  "id": "technology/2013/dec/31/tech-128-silk-road-spotify-tinder",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}