{
  "content": "When the Times attacks you in leading articles and then refuses to publish your letters of reply, you know at least two things. First, that the Times is not the paper it once was, and second, that what you have to say is something the Times does not want its readers to know. And it's not just the Times. A few months ago I emailed the editor of the Daily Telegraph suggesting he publish an article by me to give a little balance to his paper's otherwise completely one-sided coverage of press self-regulation. He replied with a single word: \"No.\" The Daily Mail's response to a similar request was almost as brusque. Last week the companies behind these papers, and behind the Mirror and the Express, took the latest important step in their carefully plotted scheme to dodge the changes proposed after the Leveson inquiry, appointing the board of what they call \"the new press regulator for the United Kingdom\". No wonder they want to shut out other voices. They don't want their readers reminded that the Leveson report looked at what they plan and declared it wasn't a regulator at all. Nor do they want people knowing that this \"regulator\", far from giving the public protection, is another licence for papers to mistreat people. Only the brazenness of this is surprising. Most national newspapers, it has long been clear, are determined to win this argument in precisely the way they have always won it before \u2013 not on the merits of the case, but by shouting. When it comes to their own behaviour, they don't want argument. It is an approach whose moral status was best summed up by Rupert Murdoch himself, back in 1968. Speaking about the power of the press, he said: \"A newspaper can create great controversies, it can stir up argument within the community, discussion, it can throw light on injustices \u2013 just as it can do the opposite: it can hide things and be a great power for evil.\" To get a measure of how much this matters, consider that the lame-duck Press Complaints Commission (PCC), even in the discredited state it finds itself in today, still receives 1,000 complaints every month. Now think how many more people there must be who don't complain about press abuse because they see dealing with the PCC as a waste of time. All of them should have access to an independent, effective press self-regulator, but they don't. And they don't have access to the courts either, unless they are very fortunate. Innocent people, in other words, are powerless in the face of newspaper corporations which, as Sir Brian Leveson put it, are only too ready to wreak havoc in their lives. Consider, too, how many of our vital debates \u2013 about crime, race, schools, immigration, sexism, health, benefits, Europe, climate and so much more \u2013 are distorted or waylaid by persistent inaccurate newspaper coverage. Not opinionated journalism \u2013 which of course is vital to democratic debate \u2013 just factually wrong reporting that nobody has to correct and for which nobody is held to account. The Leveson inquiry was supposed to have sorted this out. The judge sat for a year, heard every relevant witness and then brilliantly solved the old problem of how to introduce accountability under a press code of practice without in any way inhibiting freedom of expression. The press should regulate itself, he said, but its self-regulator should have to meet basic, defined regulatory standards and there should be a modest, independent body to conduct the necessary audits. Though the judge said this audit body should be set up by statute, the political parties agreed instead \u2013 responding to newspaper alarm about a \"press law\" \u2013 that it should be by royal charter. Both that charter, which was endorsed by every party in parliament, and the audit body it creates, the recognition panel, are painstakingly sealed off from political meddling. Few people, however, and apparently not Leveson himself, anticipated the bloody-mindedness of the group of men who own and run our biggest newspaper groups. They have raised two fingers to the judge and parliament and are creating Ipso, the \"Independent Press Standards Organisation\". This they present as if it were new, tough and independent. They even claimed in advertisements, with spectacular chutzpah, that it will \"deliver all the key elements Lord Justice Leveson called for in his report\". It isn't and it doesn't. In an analysis that has never been rebutted, the Media Standards Trust thinktank demonstrated that Ipso's rules and articles satisfy only 12 of the 38 Leveson recommendations on press self-regulation. When Leveson, in his report, looked back over decades of crises about press conduct and standards and over the successive responses of the industry, he detected what he called \"a pattern of cosmetic reform\". It is happening again. Ipso's backers are the same people who insisted for years that the PCC was independent, tough and an example to the world. Now they say: \"Forget that, Ipso's the thing. Trust us, Ipso really is independent, tough and an example to the world.\" It's like a used-car salesman saying: \"Forget the old banger I sold you before, the one that fell apart with you at the wheel, and buy this handsome new banger off my forecourt.\" It's not a matter of \"buyer beware\", more of \"run a mile\". Next we are told: \"Look at Ipso's new chairman: he's a former top judge and nobody's fool. Give him a chance and he will make it work.\" Sadly Sir Alan Moses, who is a distinguished judge, has no power as chair to rewrite the Ipso articles because they are set in stone, small print and all. Read that small print and you find that only news publishers that are members of a curious oversight body called the Regulatory Funding Company (RFC) can change the rules. And if you then look at the RFC's small print, you find the voting arrangements give overwhelming power to the Murdoch group, the Mail, the Telegraph and the Mirror. That didn't happen by accident. (At his inquiry, moreover, Leveson explicitly said there was no need for a body such as the RFC, but they set it up anyway. That did not happen by accident either.) Sir Alan Moses, if he hopes to reform Ipso, will find he can't, just as the last chair but one of the PCC, Peta Buscombe, found her reform efforts blocked. She was asked at the Leveson inquiry: \"Is the gist of your evidence this, Lady Buscombe: that you were keen for revolutionary change but you were facing resistance from the industry against such change?\" She answered yes. This brings us to a question: if the big newspaper companies have set their faces against change \u2013 and they have \u2013 are we simply stuck with what they are willing to offer? The price of acceptance would be tremendously high. Nothing would be done to repair the failures of corporate responsibility that we have witnessed in recent years and thousands of innocent people would suffer, those with least power suffering the most. Nor would journalism benefit. Most measures show that journalists, who are not trusted much at the best of times, are plumbing new depths. They badly need to show the public they are not afraid to be held to basic standards, something that is routine for people in most other walks of life. Worse, journalists settling for Ipso miss out on the unprecedented protection from \"chilling\" that the royal charter system offers. Reporters and papers inside Ipso remain vulnerable to gagging by wealthy institutions and oligarchs which can threaten extravagantly expensive legal actions \u2013 the tactic infamously employed by Robert Maxwell. The charter system is designed to prevent that. For the sake of those who would suffer cruel treatment and for the sake of decent journalism, we can't settle for the kind of regulation that suits the men who run the Sun, the Times, the Mail, the Mirror and the Telegraph. Leveson and the charter have set out a fair test of what an effective, independent self-regulator should be. We should demand that these companies adopt a system that passes that test \u2013 and we should not allow them to silence or drown out our demands by the abuse of their press power. Brian Cathcart is director of Hacked Off and professor of journalism at Kingston University London",
  "title": "'New press regulator will result in more false stories that victimise the weak'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/press-regulation",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/ipso",
    "media/media",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/leveson-report"
  ],
  "lead": "The big newspaper groups are setting up their own industry watchdog, Ipso, but it will be a toothless creature loyal only to its keepers, not the public",
  "id": "media/2014/may/31/press-regulation-ipso-newspapers-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}