{
  "content": "Managing privacy by press release is proving as effective as protecting it through the courts. As \"cocaine Kate\" jets off to lie low on Ibiza and Rene\u00e9 Zellweger provides us with an explanation of the term \"fraud\" we are seeing an interesting development in managing the relationship between celebrities and press when it comes to privacy. While their professions may have brought them fame as they tread the world's catwalks or red carpets, the attendant media attention has made them into celebrities. It is the subtle distinction between fame and celebrity that turns the attention away from their livelihoods and puts the focus on their lives. They are no longer mere models or actresses but have become celebrities. When it comes to distinctions between their professional and private lives the press no longer have to apply for a pass to gain access to all areas. With celebrities providing so much to kiss, smoke, snort and tell about, the media are revelling in this self-made market of celebrity sensation. While tabloids are suffering a slump in circulation, celebrity magazines are peddling their pictures and gossip to an expanding market. Defying the sceptics, Heat magazine has survived and recently been joined by Grazia to sit on the shelf of \"lifestyle\" titles. The irony is that it is someone else's lifestyle they're selling and we're ultimately paying for. If they cut out the news sections and stuck to celebrity pictures and sport, the tabloids might strike a winning formula. Some might argue that the Daily Star is already experimenting along such lines with its front page offerings to \"win a date\" with Abi Titmuss. When it comes to the likes of David Beckham the media can have it both ways with reports on the footballer's home games for Real Madrid resulting in less coverage than alleged away games in his private life. In the wake of recent court battles such as Naomi Campbell's battle with the Mirror (\"cocaine Kate\" obviously made for a better headline than \"cocaine Naomi\" but \"cocaine Campbell\" might have caught on) or Zeta Jones and Michael Douglas's spat with Hello, there have been no real winners. The uncertainty of the law on privacy resulted in these cases being shunted between courts where judges gave conflicting opinions as to the law and their rights under it. The underlying legal principles of balancing the human rights of individuals to privacy against the freedom of the press to publish and expose matters in the public interest are being undermined by the money. The question of control The question that ultimately needs to be asked is are such celebrities really seeking to protect their human rights or is their real motivation a desire to regain control over pictures and stories about themselves. Celebrities have found a new currency and lucrative market that exists in controlling their image rights and managing their press. PR professionals such as Max Clifford have long been ahead of the game and made careers out of it. Similarly, much legal advice in this area is as much about managing a situation proactively rather than seeking redress through litigation after the event. As celebrities get to grips with their calculators they are seeing that what might after much pain, further exposure and legal action result in a privacy-related or libel award of \u00a33,500 (as was initially awarded in the Campbell case) or \u00a3200,000 (for a successful libel action) could be more easily earned by a quick call to their agent to secure a deal with a paper. Not only would this avoid the costs of litigation, it would allow them more control over the story. While many malign the protection offered by the legal system or the PCC when it comes to privacy protection, the streetwise are seeing there are benefits to doing deals with the devil. Especially given that many of today's \"celebrities\" are smaller in stature and lesser in talent, they are less likely to have the cash reserves or connections to take on the media. We are likely to see a move away from the traditional battles fought and remedies sought in the courtroom to more boardroom deals over who gets to dish the dirt if the price is right. Having had its fingers badly burned over exclusive wedding coverage, OK! magazine sent out a stern warning ahead of Jordan's wedding to Peter Andre. While no rogue snapper popped out of the wedding cake, picture editors showed their creative flair by producing mock-ups of how scenes from the wedding might look. So while you can control some of the market some of the time you can't control all of it. The price of dishing the dirt The greatest danger celebrities experience when it comes to privacy is not so much the press but their choice of partner. From an endless list this weekend's victim was Charlotte Church whose former boyfriend decided to sully her \"voice of an angel\" image with his sordid tales of deflowering young Charlotte while high on skunk. Steve Johnson had said he'd not follow the lowly path of another former boyfriend, Kyle Johnson, in dishing the dirt but as the price was right he went for it. His father proudly proclaimed that his son deserved this along with the house and recording studio he'd bought with the proceeds. Charlotte Church had threatened legal action after reports that the delightful Johnson wanted \u00a33m not to publish his memoirs. Some would argue that the press are to blame for paying for such stories. Such is life. So when it comes to privacy, if you want some control over the press, do a deal. If you want some control over the people who will go to the press, go to court. As the Beckhams found out with their attempt to silence their former nanny earlier this year, once the cat's out the bag, the judge won't readily gag its story. While Rene\u00e9 Zellweger is reportedly seeking solace from former boyfriend Jack White - much to the annoyance of his wife, the model Karen Elson - her press release has caused as much intrigue into her private life as its plea to respect it has achieved. Having accepted Kenny Chesney's country music it appears she was less so of his misrepresentations over (it is alleged) wanting to have children. Well, at least her marriage survived longer than Britney's first. Think of the sponsors Meanwhile, Kate Moss is waking up to the realisation that it's not cool to let her life descend into the shambles that her relationship with Pete Doherty has brought about. Aside from parenting considerations, she's got her corporate sponsors to think of and snorting coke is not the chic image H&amp;M want endorsing their collections. Kate could take comfort from the final Naomi Campbell judgment. If she were to argue she has a \"condition\" that requires \"treatment\" and as such it is personal and medical. Along the lines of Campbell, media intrusion into her recovery could attract privacy protection. \u00b7Edgar Forbes is senior lecturer in media law, Bournemouth Media School \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Sex, drugs and privacy",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "As 'cocaine Kate' jets off to lie low on Ibiza, we are seeing an interesting development in managing the relationship between celebrities and press when it comes to privacy, argues Edgar Forbes",
  "id": "media/2005/sep/20/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}