{
  "content": "Emma Sayle, the 26-year-old \"director of operations\" of Fever Parties, woke up a week ago to find herself identified as one of the organisers of a \"VIP orgy\". The Sunday Mirror claimed a \"world exclusive\" in exposing those who had organised \"the biggest ever filthy-rich orgy\" on Saturday March 12 at a house in central London. Emblazoned on the front page was a still picture taken from a film of the events in the lounge, converted for the night into a playroom. About 60 people were shown having sex on a 20ft bed. The photograph was grainy and participants' faces were pixelated. The image is further obscured by MediaGuardian today. The Sunday Mirror disclosed the names and showed images of the organisers and the owner of the venue. These were published alongside photographs of a woman who was helping with security checks on the door. Sayle describes the article as a \"wicked invasion of privacy\". But can an orgy - with 250 attending - ever be truly private? The Fever team want privacy but not an outright ban on publicity. I was at the party to cover the event for a monthly women's magazine. Journalists from Grazia magazine were also invited, but we were asked not to take photographs or name participants. Sayle is not shocked that she was described as an orgy organiser. It is no revelation. As the official spokeswoman for Fever, an organisation that specialises in swinging parties, Sayle is in constant communication with journalists. It is a different issue for the other organisers and the owner of the venue. They prefer to keep a low profile and have rarely been named - until last week's Sunday Mirror. Edward Davenport, a 37-year-old property magnate, owns the venue, a former embassy in central London. The house is Davenport's London home, which he rents out four times a year for private parties. The room in which filming took place is on the first floor of the house. Usually it is a sitting room but for the evening it was converted into a bedroom, complete with an over-sized bed covered with red sheets, candles, rose petals, a DJ playing chill-out music and bowls of condoms. \"I understood it was against the law to film inside somebody's bedroom,\" says Davenport. \"It was an invasion of privacy. There weren't any public-interest reasons to film. I don't think there's any moral reason to show what goes on there.\" The event marked the launch of Club Fever, a new private club for paying members only. Anyone was allowed to apply for tickets to the launch party, although 200 people were not accepted after being vetted for their looks. Those who were allowed to attend the private party paid \u00a3150 per couple, which included free drinks and breakfast. Security staff were told by the organisers to search all the guests, removing cameras and telephones. Fever's drugs policy is the same as any nightclub's - anyone found in possession of drugs was thrown out. At 3am a freelance journalist who writes for another tabloid was told to leave. According to Sayle she was found taking photos of the playroom with her cameraphone. Sayle says she had no idea that the Graham Johnson she employed was the investigations editor of the Sunday Mirror. She thought he was \"a friend of a friend\" and employed him as a security guard for \u00a3100, on the strict instruction he was \"not to get involved\" in the party. So why did the Sunday Mirror decide to film the orgy? The paper declined to comment. But judging from the article, the main focus of the undercover expose was not only the political and wealthy background of the orgy participants and who its organisers were but the activities of an off-duty policewoman, who helped out with the party's security guard team in exchange for entrance to the party, according to Sayle. She told undercover journalists that she had worked as Prince Andrew's protection officer. The Sunday Mirror journalists wrote that they had found evidence of drugs in the toilets. Whether these allegations are true or not, do they justify filming people having sex in a bed at a private party? Dan Tench, media partner at the law firm Olswang, says that there is an arguable legal case on both sides. \"The Sunday Mirror carried out an effective investigation of an orgy and its organisers,\" he says. \"There are definitely some public interest issues to do with the policewoman and drugs. At the same time privacy questions arise from those individuals who were identified. People have some claim to say that they have a right to go to an event and do what they want in private without it being disclosed, but much less so if they're organising something and publicly promoting it.\" When Catherine Zeta-Jones and Michael Douglas sued Hello! magazine in 2003, Hello! had published photographs taken surreptiously inside a hotel room the couple had hired for their wedding party. Although the couple argued their privacy had been invaded, the court did not rule on this either way, saying in stead that the photographs were protected under the law of commercial confidence. Other issues aside, is there a legally defensible public interest in disclosing details of an orgy? According to Tench, \"events may be in the public interest even if they're not illegal. The Sunday Mirror has an arguable public-interest defence that it was a morally controversial event and one that the organisers made money out of it even though we're living in a more sexually liberated age.\" However, Fiona Campbell, media lawyer at Finer Stephens Innocent, notes: \"Generally speaking, it is by no means obvious what public interest there could be in reporting, photographing and filming without their consent the bedroom antics of private partygoers, so as to identify them.\" In Naomi Campbell's case against the Mirror, the House of Lords com mented that \"the touchstone of private life is whether in respect of the disclosed facts the person in question had a reasonable expectation of privacy.\" The Mirror defence argued that it was unclear how Campbell could expect privacy in the street where she was photographed as part of an article about her treatment for drug addiction. In this case, whatever the security guards were doing in the rest of the house, how does that justify exposing something legal - the orgy - going on in another room? Interestingly the Sunday Mirror took care not to identify any of the partygoers apart from the policewoman and the organisers. However, that concern did not stop the paper publishing a picture of sexual activities in a private room. Papers appear to be showing renewed interest in publishing images of people in their private moments. For example, two weeks ago, the News of the World ran pictures of Sheryl Crow semi-naked while changing clothes during a photoshoot, which had no obvious public interest apart from the fact that she was a celebrity. Across Fleet Street, coverage of the main political parties has been dominated by what politicians do in their private life. In a culture focused on private behaviour is it any surprise that somebody's home is seen as fair game? Those journalists who see a public interest in filming what goes on in other people's homes have a whole series of laws to consider. Apart from article 8 of the 1998 Human Rights Act on privacy, there is also the 2003 Sexual Offences Act. Section 67, on voyeurism, makes it an offence to use filming equipment to enable others to observe someone carrying out a private act where the intention is to provide sexual gratification, and the person being filmed has not consented. The Sunday Mirror appears to have stayed on the right side of this law, since it could argue that the film was not intended to provide its readers with sexual gratification. Whether some readers were titillated by the story is another question. How the courts interpret what counts as a private act and venue is contentious: the Sunday Mirror would argue there was no expectation of privacy in the room, but the partygoers might think otherwise. In this case, you do not have to be an orgy regular to ask: is anybody's bedroom safe from being filmed by an undercover journalist?",
  "title": "Under covers reporting",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "media/medialaw",
    "media/sundaymirror",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "A Sunday Mirror expos\u00e9 of a 'VIP orgy' used film taken inside someone's home. But did the participants have a right to privacy? Tessa Mayes investigates.",
  "id": "media/2005/mar/28/privacy.mondaymediasection",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}