{
  "content": "It all seemed so promising when Jack Straw announced in December that the government was going to open up the family courts to greater media - and therefore public - scrutiny. It was critical that the public had trust in the system, he said, and that required an understanding of how it worked. \"At the same time, we must protect the privacy of children and families involved in family court cases so they are not identified, or stigmatised, by their community or friends. These plans strike the right balance in providing a more open, transparent and accountable system, while protecting children and families during a difficult and traumatic time in their lives.\" Next Monday the detailed rules come into being. They clearly fail to meet the media's hopes and expectations. Indeed, on one view, very little of significance will change. Some openness is there, at least cosmetically, but the end result looks a lot like the status quo. The need to retain and enforce the anonymity of children in family court proceedings has, it seems, triumphed over the public's right to know how judges make decisions in those courts, and to read about the nature and quality of the evidence that influences them. The law will continue to ban virtually all reporting of court cases, and in those instances where there is discretion over whether to restrict reporting, judges are likely to favour secrecy over the media's wish to publish. Mr Justice McFarlane, a high court judge in the family division, pointed out in a lecture last month that \"the government does not propose that the statutory regime ... will be altered or relaxed so as to give the green light to the reporting of human interest stories\". Under the new rules, he added, the role of journalists who attend court is seen merely as \"becoming informed so that they may discuss how the system works in a more informed way, and to permit their readers to understand the gist of proceedings, rather than the detail of an individual case\". In other words, \"the reporting will be about system, not about substance\". But the media want the opposite: to be able to relate human interest stories telling of injustices, of parents who have had their children taken away because of mistakes by social workers, of judges whose decisions result in children denied access to a parent following divorce, of the iniquities of the system of taking children into care. On these issues, the media's motives are genuine and even admirable: to shed light on an often flawed system with the aim of influencing reform. They believe the best way of doing that is to highlight cases that have gone wrong, preferably with extracts from court proceedings and interviews with anguished parents. The Ministry of Justice and most judges see it differently. It's a small step forward to allow accredited journalists to attend family court proceedings - something that they haven't been entitled to do until now - but if they can't report what they see and hear there, the promised opening up will be minimal.",
  "title": "Marcel Berlins: Little change for media in family courts",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "law/law",
    "lifeandstyle/family",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "law/family-law"
  ],
  "lead": "Marcel Berlins: The need to retain and enforce the anonymity of children in proceedings has, it seems, triumphed",
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/apr/20/law-family-court-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}