{
  "content": "2010 was the year of the \"mock-or-not-doc\", the year that everyone got wise to the inherent fakery of verite \"realism\" and the manipulative power of edited reportage. The day before I'm Still Here (2010, Optimum, 15) opened in UK cinemas, director Casey Affleck admitted that his all-warts portrait of brother-in-law Joaquin Phoenix's public descent into shabby madness was nothing but a sham \u2013 an extended hoax played out in (and upon) an over-eager media. The revelation came as no surprise; rumours that Phoenix's 2008 flight from acting was itself an act were rife from the outset, and few saw his new career as the world's worst rapper as anything but a joke. Yet even after the gaffe had been officially blown, the sense that this unlikable pantomime was not entirely under control remained. Was Phoenix really just methoding to the max? Or did he and his Boy's Own crew become rather too caught up in their own in-joke? Certainly there's much here that is less Borat than just boringly boorish \u2013 endless shots of a bedraggled, beardy bozo boozing and abusing his way through an artificially accommodating world. The extras are equally paunchy, with a patchwork commentary notable for its lengthy silences and often sounding more like idle movie theatre chatter than a thorough investigation of the feature. Phoenix claims to be emulating Chevy Chase while falling off stage in Las Vegas, and the shit which finally hits his face is actually hummus and coffee grinds, apparently. As for the now infamous David Letterman interview, nothing in Phoenix's gurning antics matches Dave's withering deadpan wit; if only the rest of the movie was as entertaining as his reaction to Phoenix's act. Questions regarding the authenticity or otherwise of Catfish (2010, Momentum, 12) may well have scuppered its chances of being shortlisted for best documentary at the Oscars, although a forthcoming music copyright case is threatening to solve the thorny issue of its veracity once and for all \u2013 watch this space. Meanwhile, taken at face value the film is an intriguing companion piece to The Social Network, a tale of Facebook friends who (surprise, surprise) are not what they appear to be; a fable of elaborate invention in the impersonal internet age. Following the misadventures of a young man who becomes involved with a beautiful musician who may or may not be related to a precociously talented child painter and her oddly enigmatic mother, Catfish was first labelled a hoax by those who cried foul when it premiered at the Sundance film festival a year ago. A more sober assessment would accuse the film-makers of nothing more than mere media-literate complicity; they didn't invent the predictably bizarre events unfolding on screen, but willingly suspended their disbelief as they were led up the garden path, raising questions of who's doing the leading and who's paving the path. The resulting film is an uneasy watch, slippery in form and sly in intent, perhaps, but engrossing and perhaps even enlightening nonetheless. Crucially, unlike I'm Still Here, it's never dull, and we do end up caring about the characters portrayed on screen, particularly those whom the film's harshest critics claim have been exploited by the project. There's precious little that is controversial or indefinable about Freakonomics (2010, Optimum, 12), which also failed to make the Oscars documentary list. Adapting Steven D Levitt and Stephen J Dubner's bestselling tome Freakonomics for the screen was never going to be easy; witness the difficulties Richard Linklater ran into when attempting to dramatise the fact-finding of Fast Food Nation. Here, the portmanteau format offers only a partial solution to \"exposing the hidden side of everything [and] revealing what answers may come if one just asks the right questions\", with differing documentarists helming distinct (and unsurprisingly variable) segments linked by author interviews. In its most engaging interludes, Alex Gibney investigates corruption within sumo wrestling, drawing comparisons with the wider marketplace, while Morgan Spurlock is in typically amusing form on the subject of baby names and how they load the social dice. DVD extras include producer/director commentaries and additional interviews with Levitt and Dubner, but the overall package remains comparatively lightweight. Finally, a round-up of the week's more avowedly dramatic offerings. Please Give (2010, Sony, 15), which premiered alongside Catfish at Sundance in 2010, is a rewardingly indie-spirited look at life, relationships and the nature of \"doing good\" which benefits from reliably terrific (and pleasantly edgy) performances by Catherine Keener and Rebecca Hall. Writer-director Nicole Holefcener, who apprenticed under Woody Allen, has an impressively natural eye, and her movies wear their underlying substance lightly. Despite the incandescent presence of Noomi Rapace, The Girl Who Played With Fire (2009, Momentum, 15)is the weakest of the Stieg Larsson Millennium trilogy adaptations, its shortcomings made clearer by the partial return to form of The Girl Who Kicked the Hornets' Nest, which doesn't arrive on DVD until April. By contrast, Resident Evil: Afterlife (2010, Sony, 15) is far from the worst of Paul WS Anderson's computer game spin-off movies in which Milla Jovovich battles futuristic beasties in ever-so-slightly fetishistic costume wear. Costing a mere $60m, this splash-bang tosh has taken around $300m worldwide, proving that while he may not be the world's greatest director (despite the early promise of Event Horizon), Anderson remains a production force to be reckoned with.",
  "title": "Mark Kermode's DVD round-up",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "film/dvdreviews",
    "film/joaquin-phoenix",
    "film/film",
    "culture/culture",
    "business/economics",
    "technology/games",
    "technology/facebook",
    "film/casey-affleck"
  ],
  "lead": "Joaquin Phoenix may be having a laugh but no one else is at his mock documentary, says Mark Kermode",
  "id": "film/2011/jan/09/mark-kermode-still-here-catfish",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}