{
  "content": "\"I was down at the New Amsterdam, starin' at this yellow-haired girl...\" My cocktail of feelings as I stood in the crowded Las Vegas nightclub on Friday of last week was hard to break down. Perhaps one part deja-vu, to one part heartbreakingly nostalgic, to one part trapped, to two parts what in the name of sweet Jesus am I doing here? \"Mr Jones strikes up a conversation with a black-haired flamenco dancer.\" Deja vu, certainly. It was, after all, the second time in a month that I'd heard someone singing a live rendition of Mr Jones by the Counting Crows. The first time, regular readers of this column may recall, was in Reykjavik just before Christmas when, after a night out on the Brenniv\u00ccn, Brian Suda and I convinced an Icelandic reality show contestant to add the song to his scheduled set list of heavy metal covers. The results were predictably, but somehow delightfully, weird. \"You know, she dances while his father plays guitar...\" As for the heartbreaking nostalgia, I forgot to mention last time that the Counting Crows were \u2013 probably still are \u2013 the favourite band of a particular ex-girlfriend of mine. An ex-girlfriend who frequently made it clear during our relationship that if the band's lead singer was to so much as glance at her, she would dump me like a hot shit-covered potato and retire with all haste to his hotel room for the rest of her life. The relationship ended epically badly even by my standards of epic badness, to the point where \u2013 unless I'm off my face drunk in Iceland \u2013 the merest note of one of their songs is enough to make me want to throw myself off a bridge. \"...and so, she's suddenly beautiful....\" And I was certainly trapped. Whereas in Iceland I was standing at the back of a bar, this time I was right at the front, pressed hard against the low stage and unable to move in any direction. The room was full to bursting point and I was wedged in so tightly that escape was impossible. And as if all that wasn't weird enough, on this occasion, rather than being serenaded by a bald Icelander, the person doing the singing \u2013 standing right on the edge of the stage, not two feet in front of me \u2013 was Adam Duritz, the lead singer of the Counting Crows. My one-time cooler, richer, more talented nemesis himself. Which just leaves the question of what in the name of sweet Jesus I was doing there? I'd flown into Vegas from San Francisco the previous day, ostensibly to find out what the buzz was at this year's Consumer Electronics Show but really in the hope of topping my epic Vegas trip last year when Michael Smith and I managed to crash a party filled with 800 toga-wearing hairdressers. Given that the conference overlapped with the AVN Adult Entertainment Expo, my hopes for decadence were high. Not wanting to waste any party time, and mindful of the fact that I didn't actually have a conference pass, I had come up with a brilliant plan. Rather than actually spending hours trudging around the exhibitor booths, attending press conferences or watching the keynote presentations, I would instead simply hit up a few of the after-parties and ask other attendees what the big exciting news was. The wisdom of the crowds, right? Luckily, I'd flown in from San Francisco on the same plane as Sarah Lacy who'd invited me to a party she was co-hosting that night along with Frank Gruber, Brian Solis and Zappos. With about 700 people on the guestlist \u2013 mostly web industry folks \u2013 I figured I'd easily find people who could pass on the main conference buzz, leaving me two whole days and nights to party without worrying about work. Unfortunately, what I had failed to take in to account is that CES is a gadget conference and not a web conference and so almost none of the web folks in the room had bothered to make it down to the convention centre. In fact, CES is so not a web conference that I overheard one of the guys from Twitter complaining that he'd found it difficult to register because wasn't even a tick-box on the registration form that described his industry sector. With no CES insight in sight, there was nothing else to do but close my notebook for the night and focus on the partying. Partying which ended at the Palazzo at about 2am with three ice buckets full of champagne and the amazing sight of a couple of dozen geeks rocking out to M.I.A surrounded by a gaggle of bemused Vegas party girls. By night two, I was starting to get twitchy. I still had no idea what was going on at the conference and I was rapidly running out of decadence time. According to the buzz on Twitter, there was only one party worth going to that night, and once again it was sponsored by Intel. Held at the Luxor's LAX nightclub, the party would bring together thousands of CES attendees \u2013 almost none of them web folk. Finding stories from inside the convention centre would be a piece of cake. My only problem \u2013 aside from learning that the guest stars were my ex-girlfriend's favourite band \u2013 was how to get inside. The party was due to start at 7.30 and by 7.15 I was almost out of ideas. Despite spending the day emailing every contact I knew who might be able to help, an entry wristband remained as elusive as a Wi-Fi connection at a French web conference. Dejected, I slumped down at one of the Luxor's many bars, ordered myself a rum and Coke, and started tapping out a few final desperate emails on my BlackBerry. 7.30 came, then 7.45 ... still no replies. It was hopeless. I was beaten. And then as if by magic... \"Hey!\" It was Sarah. \"Oh, hi\" I mumbled, \"what you up to?\" \"I'm just on my way to dinner, you?\" \"Trying to work out how to crash the Intel party.\" \"Are you kidding? The Counting Crows one? Why would anyone want to see the Counting Crows?\" \"Actually, they were my ex-girlfriend's ... never mind.\" \"Well, you can have my wristband if you like.\" She reached into her purse and pulled out a neatly folded strip of paper. I could have hugged her \u2013 but that would have wasted valuable seconds. It was almost eight o'clock and the Counting Crows were due on stage at nine \u2013 I only had an hour of mingling time left. There was no time to lose. Fast forward half an hour and my work was done. With a single lap of the crowded club, I'd spoken to half a dozen of the attendees and had scribbled a list in my notebook under the heading \"everything you need to know about CES 09\". Here, verbatim, is the list... \u2022 The conference feels pretty busy, but only because most stands were booked a year ago. In reality, most companies have only sent key staff to Vegas rather than entire teams. Everyone worried about their jobs. \u2022 Wireless electricity based on beaming heat across the room is super cool (no pun intended) but nowhere near ready to be unleashed on the public. \u2022 Microsoft really screwed up the Windows 7 beta launch. \u2022 If you like cool televisions, CES will make you shit yourself. \u2022 Palm Pre \u2022 PALM PRE \u2022 PALM PRE!!! Ah yes, the Palm Pre Smartphone. The conference highlight that everyone \u2013 absolutely everyone \u2013 wanted to talk about. Apart from being a beautiful thing to behold, combining the multimedia possibilities of the iPhone with the not-having-a-fucking-annoying-virtual-keyboardiness of the BlackBerry, it also boasts the WebOS operating system. In short, WebOS makes developing applications for the device as easy as building a website. Between the aesthetics of the device and the openness of the platform, even iPhone owners I spoke to were considering trading up. If you can make Apple fans think about switching platforms, you know you've created something amazing. And so that was that \u2013 in just half an hour my entire week's work was done, leaving the whole of the next day and night free for fun. I headed for the door. And I almost made it. Unfortunately, just as I was passing the stage, I ran into Frank Gruber, Sarah's party co-host. The room had really started to fill up in anticipation of the Counting Crows, so Frank was saving himself a spot right at the front of the stage. Given that he'd been jointly responsible for ensuring I could drink for free all of the previous night, I figured the least I could do was to go to the bar and get him a drink. By the time I'd made it back, forcing my way through the crowd with the drink held above my head, the club had filled to capacity. And no sooner had I arrived, than the stage lit up and the whole crowd surged forward, pinning me to my spot. \"Sha la la la la la la la.\" But still, as the Counting Crows worked their way through a set-list consisting almost entirely of my ex's favourite songs, each of them sung straight into my face by the man she'd have left me for in a heartbeat, I couldn't help but smile. I still had a whole 24 hours still left in Vegas \u2013 24 hours which, as it turned out, may or may not have involved a weird party full of porn stars and geeks, a dive bar where the specialty of the house was \"Ass Juice\", a huge crowd of angry punks and a whole load of thrown bottles and chairs. Those 24 hours would make one hell of a story, but you know what they say: what happens in Vegas ... ... I'm saving for my next book. \u2022 Paul Carr is author of Bringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs at paulcarr.com.",
  "title": "Not safe for work: Tears and loafing in Las Vegas",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/ces",
    "technology/wifi",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/blackberry",
    "technology/microsoft",
    "technology/windows"
  ],
  "lead": "Not safe for work: Episode 10 \u2013 in which I'm obliged to stand at the feet of my nemesis while he sings the song I most fear",
  "id": "technology/2009/jan/16/not-safe-for-work-paul-carr-ces",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}