{
  "content": "Social media and digital technology are increasingly essential for non-profit organisations. Yet Visceral Business' Charity Social 100 Index 2012, released earlier this year, showed that many charities are not making the most of online networks. We ran a live discussion on how organisations can make digital communication a two-way process. Here is what our experts advised: Adam Wilkinson, head of development at Connect Assist, said: \"Social media is really good for smaller organisations, as it allows them to raise awareness quickly and inexpensively. For example, Twitter is free to join. Look at the way other users present themselves, decide what you like and what you would do better, and incorporate that into the way you tweet.\" Anja Nettler, of the Canal &amp; River Trust, argued that choosing the right social media platform is important: \"Be where your audience is, there's no point having a LinkedIn page if you're targeting teenagers. Start slowly and identify one social media channel that your supporters are most likely to use. Once you've mastered it, think about opening an account on another platform.\" Social media strategist, Sylwia Presley, agreed that using platforms in the right way is essential: \"I have been asked where people should start and I say invest in Facebook, Twitter and Google. Potentially use Flickr, Pinterest and YouTube if you can, and use mobile apps for reporting as well as Instagram and Histamatic for photos. Once you have set up a presence on different platforms, measure the effects and evaluate which to continue with.\" Elena Goodrum, digital engagement manager at Sift Digital, explained that the way you communicate online is key: \"Giving your supporters a voice is really important and helps make them feel like they are a part of your organisation. At any point where it makes sense, involve them in your decisions.\" Paul Darigan, social media manager at Girlguiding UK, agreed that online conversation should be about listening as well as talking: \"Far too often I see organisations use social media platforms as broadcast tools, and they appear to completely forget the 'social' focus of social media. You need policies and guidelines that are geared towards engagement. When you have good guidelines in place, it's about reaching out and talking to your community, don't be afraid to ask them what they want.\" Social media coach Matt Collins said: \"Make people feel like they are part of your organisation by showing them what goes on day to day. Tweet pictures of members of staff with their favourite mug, share funny quotes from around the office on Facebook \u2013 anything that gives followers a feel for what your charity is like.\" Joe Freeman, Digital Engagement Manager at Diabetes UK, advised that taking the time to do this could lead to an increase in donations: \"I strongly feel that good use of social media fosters stronger relationships with supporters, and so when they get an appeal letter through their door, they're more likely to donate.\" It is important to have the right attitude towards social media, Alison McCormack, digital strategist at We Are MC2, said: \"Stop thinking about controlling conversations, where responsibility for it sits, and who 'owns' it, and start thinking about the best ways to communicate with your audience. Turn your internal and external communities into advocates for your cause.\" Steve Bridger, of Visceral Business, suggested that organisations use online networks more creatively: \"Use social media to tell stories, we should be inspiring people, selling an idea of how things could be. It's about the quality of the experience you provide and the way it makes people feel. We are in the connections business and the future success of a charity is dependent on how quickly it can evolve to meet the desire of connected people to engage with it. To quote Laurie Anderson, 'technology is the campfire around which we tell our stories,' \u2013 I believe this to be true.\" Finally, Loren Treisman, executive of Indigo Trust, said: \"Social media can be used in so many ways, including overcoming barriers to inclusion, improving service delivery, fundraising, identifying new opportunities, increasing transparency and accountability, learning more about other organisations and keeping up to date with your field. Make the most of it and think beyond its traditional uses.\" To view the original live discussion, how charities can harness networked power, click here. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the voluntary sector network, click here.",
  "title": "Is your organisation getting the most out of digital and social media?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "voluntary-sector-network/communications",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network-blog",
    "society/charities",
    "media/social-media",
    "society/voluntarysector"
  ],
  "lead": "Ten experts give their advice on how organisations can make better use of digital technology and online networks",
  "id": "voluntary-sector-network/2012/nov/23/charities-social-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}