{
  "content": "As sacrifices go, it's hardly the same as not eating for 40 days. But nevertheless, there is something oddly scary about giving up Facebook for Lent. Which is why I'm doing just that. There are many reasons to dislike Facebook \u2013 its tax affairs, its secret psychological tests, its sometimes crass reminders of distressing life events \u2013 but they aren't what motivate my abstinence. No, it's the fact that, like millions of others, my life has become unhealthily entwined with it. It's often the first thing I see on waking, and the last thing I see before sleeping. I turn to it to settle my head after a bad dream. When I post on it \u2013 and I don't post very often \u2013 I'm far too eager to see how many likes I get. I've never considered myself especially insecure but this outlet wasn't part of our lives 10 years ago, yet it somehow seems to have become my first resort for solace and self-validation. But there's something else that makes Facebook (and other social media) an ideal candidate for Lenten privation: the nature of Lent itself. Whereas our online selves are often inflated and contrived versions of the real thing, Lent is all about stripping away the stuff we use to puff ourselves up. Forget the faddish January detox: Lent has been purging the soul for centuries. The origins of Lent, which starts this Wednesday, are pleasingly mysterious. It's not in itself a biblical thing: yes, Jesus is said to have fasted for 40 days in the wilderness, where he underwent temptation after temptation, but there is no injunction to his followers to do likewise. It's now considered a time of atonement and self-denial in preparation for the rigours of Holy Week and the celebration of Easter. Lent lingers on in dilute form in the secular world, but in many Christian circles it's something deeper than just a time to forsake a particular vice: it's a season of paring things back, confronting the shadows in ourselves, facing up to the disturbing truth that, had we been around 2,000 years ago, we may well have added our voice to those clamouring for Jesus's brutal death. It's pleasing to consider ourselves incapable of doing seriously bad things, but whether it's the Stanford Prison Experiment or Derren Brown's latest TV special, there's plenty of evidence throughout history that that may not be true. (No wonder we need carnivals and pancakes to brace ourselves for all this). I gave up Facebook last Lent too. The changes I noticed were subtle to begin with: less time spent scrolling listlessly on my phone, less time being distracted; then less time spent wondering how I was coming across to other people. The fleeting dopamine hits were replaced with a bit more time in contented (but hopefully not smug) reflection. It was telling that the first thing I noticed on returning to Facebook on Easter Day was the sheer noise: how many voices there are (many of them lovely, of course, but still), how many images, how much endless, endless stuff there is. Of course, I've since become inured to this cacophonous bombardment, but that just tells me that I need to give it up again. Facebook has its place in our lives as a useful tool. It can offer a means of support to the lonely, keep distant family members in touch, bring long-lost friends together, promote valuable causes and spread art and fun. But, like my dad used to say about TV, it makes a good servant and a bad master. We don't need to check it as a matter of instinct or reflex. We don't need to live our lives and relationships through it. Years ago, it was assumed that we'd all by now be immersed in Second Life; as it turned out, our virtual world of choice looks far more realistic. On the first day of Lent, a priest will tell me, face to face: \"Remember that you are dust, and to dust you shall return.\" As Lent concludes, I will sing of a desire to sacrifice \"all the vain things that charm me most\". Facebook, vain thing that it is and the vain things it makes us do, can go too.",
  "title": "Why I'll be giving up Facebook for Lent \u2013 again | Peter Ormerod",
  "lead": "It may not be the greatest sacrifice, but being stripped of my contrived, insecure online self came as a real relief last year, so I'm doing it again",
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2016/feb/08/giving-up-facebook-lent-online-self",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}