{
  "content": "Lord Justice Leveson will publish his report on press standards next Thursday and make a televised statement, but has said he will not field questions from journalists or grant interviews that day. The long expected and wide-ranging report into the culture, practices and ethics of the press will be published at 1.30pm on Thursday 29 November, when it will be laid in both Houses of Parliament. However, Westminster sources indicated this morning that MPs may not get to debate the report formally until December 3 \u2013 although there is some pressure to hold a parliamentary debate on the day. Labour sources indicated this morning that the party would examine whether there were grounds to table an urgent question in order to force a debate in parliament on the day the report is published. The high court judge will make an on-camera statement about his findings at the Queen Elizabeth II conference centre immediately after publication of the report. While the press and public have been invited to attend the televised statement, Leveson has said he does not intend to take any questions and will not be available for \"one-to-one interviews with the media\". The full report will be made available on the Leveson inquiry website, www.levesoninquiry.org.uk and comes after months of hearings which saw victims of press intrustion such as the Dowler family give evidence, as well as newspaper editors, and the last four prime ministers, including David Cameron. Following the publication of the report Leveson is flying off to Australia, he is scheduled to speak at a one-day symposium on privacy in the 21st century on 7 December in Sydney. It is not clear if he will take questions at that event. The prime minister, David Cameron, will make a House of Commons statement on the day the Leveson report is published, the leader of the house Andrew Lansley told MPs. A Downing Street spokesman said no specific time for the statement has been set. A spokesman for the inquiry said: \"The inquiry was established as a judicial inquiry under the Inquiries Act 2005. Lord Justice Leveson's conclusions and recommendations are set out in full in his report and he will not be taking any questions or accepting requests for interviews, in the same way as he would not comment on any other case he dealt with in his judicial capacity. His report speaks for itself.\" \u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\". \u2022 To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook.",
  "title": "Leveson press standards report to be published on Thursday 29 November",
  "lead": "Lord Justice Leveson confirms date but says he will not field questions from journalists or grant interviews that day. By Mark Sweney",
  "tags": [
    "media/leveson-inquiry",
    "media/media",
    "media/press-freedom",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/press-intrusion",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/leveson-report"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2012/nov/22/leveson-press-standards-report",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}