{
  "content": "The royal courts of justice in London are normally the austere setting for dusty cases of family law, judicial review and tax evasion. But for one day only, the ceremonial periwigs, gowns and ribboned tomes of case law were today pushed aside to make way for a circus bringing together two celebrities, two celebrity magazines and in the American and British TV and press, two of the world's most voracious media. As movie stars Catherine Zeta Jones and Michael Douglas came to town to appear in court in person for the first time in their case against Hello! magazine, the scene was more akin to a movie premiere than the sixth day of a court case. The couple are, of course, used to having cameras thrust in their faces but even they may have been taken aback by the level of interest in their arrival at the high court in London to take the stand. The Sun, subtle as ever, had sent its double-decker bus down to the high court emblazoned with the slogan: \"Hello! The media circus is in town\". It was doing laps of the court a full hour before the case was due to kick off at 10.30am, as over 100 photographers and reporters from America and Germany as well as the UK jostled for position around the main gates. A false alarm at around 9.45am led to an unsuspecting businessman in a black Mercedes being besieged by the world's media. The phalanx of photographers surged forward and then retreated disappointedly. When the golden couple finally arrived the media were lucky to get a glimpse through the windows of the blacked out Mercedes as it crawled through the gridlocked traffic at the entrance to the court. Fittingly, given that they are claiming Hello!'s snatched pictures invaded their privacy, they sped through the side entrance as quickly as possible. The decision not to do a photo-call, as had been expected, was rich with irony. Photographers desperate not to miss their chance were forced to erect scaffolding outside the court to peer beyond the iron fencing and in through the car park by the side entrance. Likewise, the TV news cameras whose powerful zoom lenses allowed viewers in newsrooms and at home a glimpse of the couple - with Douglas' curiously amber coloured and perfectly coiffed hair glinting as he ushered his seven months' pregnant wife up the steps into the court. All of which left crews from ITV News and Sky News desperately filling time as they failed to get the dramatic pictures they wanted. The case has attracted huge international attention with court staff forced to allocate tickets to media organisations vying to see the celebrity pair take the stand inside the cramped and old-fashioned courtroom. Three benches at the back of the courtroom had been cleared for the press as was the bench normally used by the jury. Welsh actress Zeta Jones and her Oscar-winning husband are suing Hello! for \u00a3500,000 in damages for loss of income, stress and damage to their careers because of the poor quality of the pictures it used. They claim Hello's proprietor, Eduardo Sanchez Junco, plotted with a group of paparazzi photographers to infiltrate their wedding reception to take the surreptitious shots - causing suspicion to fall on family and friends when they appeared in print. But the magazine has said in its defence papers that the couple forfeited any right to privacy by actively seeking publicity for the event.",
  "title": "Hollywood comes to town",
  "lead": "The arrival this morning at the high court of Catherine Zeta Jones and Michael Douglas for their legal action against Hello! was more akin to a movie premiere than the sixth day of a court case, write Ciar Byrne  and Owen Gibson",
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2003/feb/10/privacy.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}