{
  "content": "A nurse was allegedly assaulted by an employee of Australia's health practitioner regulator, who used his credentials to access the agency's database and track down her home address and phone number. The security breach is one of several Guardian Australia has uncovered at the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (Ahpra), the body responsible for protecting the public by investigating complaints against healthcare practitioners. The investigation has uncovered serious flaws that could be placing medical practitioners at risk of further assaults, fraud and unauthorised access to their personal data. The agency is set to face scrutiny from a Senate inquiry into medical complaints handling initiated by the independent senators Nick Xenophon and John Madigan. Xenophon told Guardian Australia the allegations were \"extraordinary\" and called on Ahpra to provide a full explanation. \"This calls into question the very foundation of our medical complaint system in this country,\" he said. \"These allegations have shaken my confidence in Ahpra. If this has happened what else is going wrong that compromises our system of medical complaints? Ahpra has a very heavy obligation to make a full and prompt response to these most serious allegations.\" The Ahpra employee allegedly accessed the nurse's personal records in September 2015 in order to track her down over a personal matter. Ahpra, which regulates 14 health professions, including doctors and nurses, became aware of the alleged assault and the unauthorised access of its database only when the nurse lodged a complaint with the organisation. The nurse contacted New South Wales police following her assault, and the employee was suspended by Ahpra. In a separate incident, an Ahpra employee who was also a midwife used her access to medical records to look up details of a complaint that had been made against her in July 2014. The complainant had separately launched civil proceedings against the woman in Victoria. The Ahpra employee then used the information as evidence in her own civil court case. It is not known whether the incident was ever disclosed to the woman who made the complaint. The incidents are just two of a number of serious data breaches that have occurred within the organisation, but have never before been disclosed. An Ahpra spokeswoman declined to comment on either privacy breach. She said in a statement: \"We are unable to comment on individual matters for privacy reasons.\" The spokeswoman also declined to release information about the number of other data breaches that had occurred since 2014, and said: \"This information is not published.\" A number of other systematic data handling failures could also be jeopardising the privacy of medical practitioners. Guardian Australia can also reveal that more than 700 staff at Ahpra could potentially have access to sensitive communications metadata disclosed to the agency under the Telecommunications (Interception and Access) Act 1979. Disclosures from telecommunications companies are not held in separate databases by Ahpra. The information is generally uploaded to case files, which are broadly accessible by staff across the agency. Ahpra has previously said it holds the data \"in a secure Ahpra database\" and is only available to staff \"where this is required or authorised by law.\" The Ahpra spokeswoman said telecommunications was held in a secure database \"which is password protected and audit logged.\" She said Ahpra staff \"must only access, use and disclose data for the purpose of performing their functions under the national law or as otherwise required or authorised by law.\" The organisation has been prone to bungles in data handling. In January it inadvertently sent out 25,000 emails to nurses stating they were registered to practise as medical radiation practitioners. Ahpra said in a press release on 1 January that no data breach had occurred, and that the error was caused by a technical issue. The organisation has been the subject of ongoing scrutiny over its performance, and is facing a Senate inquiry into its handling of medical complaints. The community references committee inquiry is examining the role of Ahpra and the Medical Board of Australia in managing professional misconduct investigations related to harassment and bullying. The agency has also come under attack for what was described in the Medical Journal of Australia as its failure to protect the public from the spurious health claims of chiropractors, prompting the chair of the Australian Health Ministers' Advisory Council, Jack Snelling, to demand answers. Ahpra is one of 61 agencies listed as having applied to the attorney general, George Brandis, for renewed access to gain warrantless access to telecommunications data. There would be no requirement that Ahpra must be investigating serious criminal law offences to access this data. The move has left consumer groups and doctors seriously concerned. Under Australian privacy law agencies are not required to make notifications of data breaches, but are encouraged to do so when the breaches are serious and could place individuals at risk. The Ahpra spokeswoman said: \"Ahpra takes privacy and information security seriously. We have information governance structures, an information security policy framework, information security procedures and information security training to manage and improve information security.\" \u2022 Contact Paul Farrell at paul.farrell@theguardian.com or Melissa Davey at melissa.davey@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Nurse allegedly assaulted after watchdog employee used database to find her",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/data-protection",
    "society/health",
    "society/doctors",
    "australia-news/australian-politics",
    "australia-news/george-brandis",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/society",
    "australia-news/australia-news"
  ],
  "lead": " Breach at Australia's health practitioner regulator reveals flaws in handling of personal data and 'shakes confidence' in medical complaints system",
  "id": "technology/2016/feb/09/nurse-allegedly-assaulted-after-watchdog-employee-used-database-to-find-her",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}