{
  "content": "Confusion has surrounded the release of the judgment in Naomi Campbell's case against the Mirror newspaper. Ms Campbell sued the Mirror for breach of confidence and breach of the Data Protection Act following publication of photographs of her leaving a Narcotics Anonymous meeting and details of the therapy she was receiving. Taking the media somewhat by surprise, the high court ruled in her favour, awarding her \u00a33,500 in damages. Having listened to detailed evidence of how the supermodel had consistently lied to the press about her alleged drug addiction and the unconvincing performance that she gave in the witness box, it was generally perceived in the media that the Mirror would win. Concern at what the judgment would mean for the future of press freedom was quickly voiced as Ms Campbell's legal team pronounced it a victory for celebrities seeking to protect their private life. But on closer reading of the judgement it is clear that, although Ms Campbell has been declared victorious in legal terms, her case does not sound the death knell for press freedom. It has not, as some media lawyers would contend, taken us any further forward towards establishing an independent right to privacy in English law. The first point to note about this case, which may have been overlooked in the excitement of yesterday's ruling, is that Ms Campbell did not pursue a claim for damages purely on the basis that the Mirror had infringed her privacy. Her case was based on breach of confidence and breach of the Mirror's duty under the Data Protection Act. The Human Rights Act now dictates that courts must take into account a claimant's right to privacy and balance that against the defendant's right to freedom of expression when deciding breach of confidence cases. However, it is incorrect to label this a \"privacy case\" as it was clearly decided on the ordinary common law principles of confidence. In summary, the judge drew an important distinction between the nature of the different information that the Mirror had published about the Ms Campbell. Firstly, the newspaper had disclosed the straightforward fact that she was a drug addict. This the judge held, was perfectly legitimate information that the Mirror had a right to publish. She had consistently denied in the press that she had a drugs problem and, as a high profile role model for young woman, this misrepresentation could and should be exposed. But the Mirror had gone further than this and also published details of the treatment Ms Campbell was receiving in order to treat her drug addiction. It was this information that the judge found to be confidential and obviously obtained by somebody who had a duty not to disclose it. The law has always arguably recognised information of this nature as being confidential. So, although Ms Campbell was clearly shown on the evidence to be a celebrity who courts publicity perhaps more ruthlessly and shrewdly than most, in the words of the judge, this did not mean \"every aspect and detail of her private life is legitimate quarry for journalists\", especially where the information obtained was clearly of a confidential nature. Despite this, the media should take some comfort from this case, which for lawyers, contained no surprises. Ms Campbell has not laid the foundations for a new privacy law and, in light of the judge's comments questioning her integrity, she may ultimately be seen as the real loser.",
  "title": "Comment: Campbell ruling",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/world",
    "law/law",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "The Campbell ruling does not sound the death knell for press freedom, says Sarah Thomas, a specialist in privacy law at Charles Russell",
  "id": "media/2002/mar/28/privacy.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}