{
  "content": "The royal family's legal bills have soared due to moves forcing servants to sign contracts with tighter confidentiality clauses to stop them selling stories and pictures to the media. Buckingham Palace's annual public finance accounts published today showed that increases in insurance premiums and legal bills related to new contracts for all new and existing staff had increased by \u00a3125,000 last year compared to the previous year. However the palace said that this was a one-off extra cost and that the overall price of having a head of state had decreased in \"real terms by 1%\" and was equivalent to 61p per person, per year, or \"less than the price of two pints of milk\". The accounts showed that the Queen's expenditure had actually risen 1.7% from the previous year up to \u00a336.8m, \"because of more state visits, major overseas tours and other ceremonial costs\". But this was offset, the palace said, by the exclusion of the one-off Golden Jubilee expenditure in 2002-2003. All royal staff up to Lord Chamberlain must sign the new strongly-worded personal agreements with the sovereign about confidentiality. Anyone breaching them is required to hand over any money earned from disclosures to charity. Also, the wording has been strengthened to avoid legal loopholes which enabled previous leaks to go unpunished. The tighter contracts are part of changes the palace is making as part of a review to increase the privacy of the royals. They come in the wake of last November's disclosures by Daily Mirror undercover reporter Ryan Parry, although it is understood they were planned before his series of disclosures. Mr Parry got a job as a footman at Buckingham Palace and the Mirror splashed on the \"security breach\" on the day the US president, George Bush, was starting a visit to the UK. Mr Parry took pictures of the palace interior which were syndicated around the world and showed some of the minutiae of royal life such as how the Queen's cornflakes were laid out in Tupperware boxes on her breakfast table. In addition the autobiography of Paul Burrell, the former butler to Diana, Princess of Wales, also caused the royals considerable embarrassment. It is understood the new contracts are being rolled out among all royal staff, including those working for the Prince of Wales. They will be updated in three years so that the importance of confidentiality can be stressed again. Alan Reid, the keeper of the privy purse, said that the palace was committed to being transparent about its finances. He said: \"We want full transparency and clarity. We believe that we publish more information than any organisation in the country including public companies and we believe that this helps that.\" Mr Reid said that the \"reduction in real terms in the amount of head of state expenditure reflects the continuous attention the royal household pays to obtaining the best value for money in all areas of expenditure\". He said that economising had helped \"offset the increases in employment costs, where the royal household endeavours to ensure its employees are paid in line with market rates for comparable jobs. \" Mr Reid added that it had been decided this year to change the analogy used to describe how much having a monarch cost the general public. He said: \"For the last couple of years we have indicated that the annual cost per person in the country in funding the head of state was equivalent to the cost of a loaf of bread. [But] with the passage of time the loaf of bread has become stale and this year's expenditure per person, per annum, amounts to 61p or less than two pints of milk.\"",
  "title": "Legal bills inflate royal costs",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/monarchy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": "The royal family's legal bills have soared due to moves forcing servants to sign contracts with tighter confidentiality clauses to stop them selling stories and pictures to the media. By Mark Oliver",
  "id": "media/2004/jun/24/privacy.royalsandthemedia",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}