{
  "content": "Siteforum has been tackling the challenge of web presence and social networking for business even before social networking had a name. Launched in 1998 by Dirk Schlenzig, the firm has offices in Germany, London and in the US funded entirely by organic growth and employing 32 staff. Schlenzig is evangelical about the transformative qualities of properly communicating with the public and with partners through the web, particularlyfor public sector organisations. It's time to be ambitious about web functionality and interactivity, he says, and not just about fancy presentation. \"Let's look forward to a new generation that will be amazed at how much has been achieved so cost-effectively and berating the laggard councils who don't yet have virtual community centres.\" For now, Siteforum has 5.1 million users but is aiming to reach 11m in the next year. \u2022 What's your pitch? \"We provide a technology service that enables companies to have their own professional interactive website and social networking, similar to Facebook and, in the professional world, LinkedIn. The service extends to helping companies build business applications that aid communication and collaboration with their customers, partners and employees in business. We call this social networking for business. \"Siteforum customers licence the services and it is primarily delivered as a cloud-based service with certain features switched on as needed. The design is completely flexible and be configured using industry-standard templates and can be customised to the creative design of the customer.\" \u2022 How do you make money? \"Siteforumcharges a SaaS (software as a service) fee and also provides professional services.\" \u2022 How are you surviving the downturn? \"Social networking for business is growing rapidly, regardless of the recession. It's extremely cost-effective; all people need is an internet connection \u2013 no servers or software to install. Businesses are starting to understand that their customers and employees expect them to get involved in social networking and open-up their communications.\" \u2022 What's your background? \"I was a software student at the University of Applied Sciences in Schmalkalden, Germany, and then founded Siteforum in 1998 and have been software developer for the company since then.\" \u2022 What makes your business unique? \"Siteforumhas a truly integrated social business platform enabling customers to run a powerful website, social network and online community as one integrated application. It also has a powerful native development framework so people can build their own applications on top of it. Our latest release includes Virtual Events, which allows non-technical users to create and launch their own online events, which we believe is going to be an exciting addition to this space.\" \u2022 What has been your biggest achievement so far? \"We are proud of many of our achievements and were very excited to work with global brands like Microsoft, McDonalds and HR.com. We are also very proud of our long-standing relationship with VBL, a huge German pension company who manages over four million pension customers using our platform.\" \u2022 Who in the tech business inspires you? \"It's hard to avoid the big names that changed the game for everyone \u2013 Bill Gates and Steve Jobs, and in the social networking space Ev Williams the creator of Twitter and Mark Zuckerberg who created Facebook. All have changed the way we use computers and the internet in dramatic ways. Dennis Crowley the co-founder of Foursquare, a location-based social networking tool, also has my admiration; Facebook has since copied the model and many others are trying to emulate what he has achieved. Reid Hoffman, the founder of LinkedIn has a lower profile than some in the space but he created something that a lot of people are now revisiting, having recognised its power. Ultimately any pioneers in helping businesses to make sense of social media definitely have my respect.\" \u2022 What's your biggest challenge? \"Growing the business and showing more customers the way to use social communities and gain great returns from embracing social networking. It's simple to do but many still think it's going to be complicated and see it as a 'nice to have'. \"We see social networking today as websites were in the early 1990s. Back then not everyone thought a web presence was essential, but today their view would be very different. We anticipate the same change in attitudes to occur over the next year.\" \u2022 What's the most important piece of software that you use each day? \"Java and Microsoft Office. It was Java that gotSiteforumstarted in web development and Microsoft that supported our early needs as a business. We now hope to make the cloud more accessible than office was on the PC.\" \u2022 Name your closest competitors \"Jive, Atlassian, Telligent, Opentext and Microsoft.\" \u2022 Where do you want the company to be in five years? \"The best-loved service in the cloud and a run rate revenue of $100m.\" \u2022 Sell to Google, or be bigger than Google? \"If a call came through from Google I would have them put through, but we have no plans to sell to Google. That said, aiming to be bigger than Google is not necessarily feasible. Emulating their success in our space though is a more real objective; the intention being to become the universal social networking platform for business.\" siteforum.com",
  "title": "Elevator Pitch: Siteforum's take on the social web for business",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media"
  ],
  "lead": "The 12-year-old business wants to become the universal social networking platform for business. By Jemima Kiss",
  "id": "media/pda/2010/oct/12/siteforum-social-media-business",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}