{
  "content": "A Northern Ireland-based webpage promoting a binge drinking game has been shut down after the death of a teenager who had allegedly been playing it. The NekNomination Facebook page had encouraged readers to take part in the game and had attracted more than 10,000 \"likes\" since it was set up a week ago. It has now been taken down after complaints from the family of Jonny Byrne, 19, from Co Carlow in Ireland. He died after jumping into the river Barrow in Carlow on Saturday. Ireland's communications minister, Pat Rabbitte, challenged Facebook on Monday to take down any future pages promoting such heavy drinking contests. \"It would be helpful if Facebook agreed to take down pages, which promote a stupid and silly phenomenon,\" he said. Byrne's family said he had been playing the NekNomination game in which participants film their drinking bouts and post them as online videos on the site. The NekNomination site had first appeared last Tuesday to show films of drinking games played mainly by teenagers and younger people. The aim of the game is to down a full pint of alcohol via a large intake of spirits and other drinks, and then nominate others to do the same within a 24-hour period. The dead teenager's father, Joe, told Irish state broadcaster RTE that his son had been playing the binge drinking game and appealed for others not to take part. \"I'm pleading to every youngster to think of the things they're doing. It has cost my son his life. The whole family is devastated and our lives will never be the same again. I hope this message is heeded because for us, life is virtually over,\" he said. The teenager's brother, Patrick, said he has begun a campaign on Facebook against the drinking game, which is believed to have originated in Australia. He also took to Facebook to urge others not to take part in the binge drinking challenge. \"My young 19-year-old brother died tonight in the middle of his nomination ... he thought he had to try and beat the competition, after he necked his pint, he jumped into the river. If people have any decency and respect they will refrain from anymore of this stupid NekNomination.\" Professor Frank Murray, of the Royal College of Physicians of Ireland, said more deaths are likely from such extreme binge drinking spurred on by websites. \"The loss of a young person is tragic; never more so than when it is completely avoidable. Sadly, this extreme binge drinking will likely lead to more deaths,\" he said. In Northern Ireland, a member of the Stormont Assembly said he had been approached by parents concerned over their children taking part in the game. Joe Byrne, an SDLP Assembly member for West Tyrone, said: \"This is not a game. It is destroying lives. I would call on people to take these concerns seriously and look after their health and wellbeing by not participating in this 'game', and to protect their friends from the serious risks associated with it by not nominating them to take part.\" Facebook said it was reviewing videos linked to the craze but said that the posting of such material is not a breach of its rules or community standards. A number of other similar pages are still on the site. Its in-house rules define harmful content as organising world violence, theft, property destruction or something that directly inflicts emotional distress. Facebook said it aims to enable people to share freely while protecting the rights of others. \"We do not tolerate content which is directly harmful, for example bullying, but controversial or offensive behaviour is not necessarily against our rules. We encourage people to report things to us which they feel break our rules so we can review and take action on a case by case basis. We also give people the ability to remove themselves from an uncomfortable conversation through tools such as untagging and blocking.\"",
  "title": "NekNomination webpage closed on Facebook after Ireland drinking death",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/ireland",
    "world/europe-news",
    "society/society",
    "world/world",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "uk/northernireland",
    "society/alcohol"
  ],
  "lead": "Family of Jonny Byrne, 19, lead calls for end to web binge drinking craze after youth drowned in river",
  "id": "world/2014/feb/03/neknomination-facebook-binge-drinking-death-ireland",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}