{
  "content": "Got a Facebook addiction? You have good reason to be worried: according to research by the Guardian last week, more than 1,700 public employees have been sacked or disciplined for internet or email misuse in the last three years. Employers are increasingly banning access to Facebook from work computers (members in the UK spend an average of 143 minutes a month logged into the site), with as many as 70% of UK businesses reportedly banning the site during work hours. Bad news for those who like to while away the odd 15 minutes reading messages and checking what exes and old schoolfriends have got up to. Well maybe. Because Facebook does not necessarily sound the death knell for your career. In fact some users are actually finding their jobs on it. With more than 3.2 million Facebook users in the UK (Bebo has 4 million and MySpace 6.5 million), it's unsurprising that employers are waking up to the potential of social networking to secure the perfect candidate. The newest employee of Leeds recruitment consultants Lawrence Harvey, Zara Tang, came across the company while \"messing around\" on the site. The 22-year-old, who was working in a jeweller's at the time, explains, \"I went into the Groups application, searching for something or other, and on the main page was a group with the title, Fancy a Job in Recruitment? and I did, so I clicked on it.\" She sent the company an email with her CV attached and, after a few interviews, got a job. Tang thinks that companies need to switch on to Facebook's use as a recruitment tool. \"It's a really discreet way to approach employers and employees,\" she says, \"and a great way of keeping up with the industry.\" Business networking strategist Andy Lopata agrees. \"It breaks down barriers. There have been several studies which suggest that 70% of jobs are filled through personal recommendation. Facebook just facilitates that.\" Lopata thinks Facebook is becoming more talked about as a means of recruitment \"both in terms of getting candidates and also researching them\". A client survey in October from UK recruiters Crone Corkill and FSS revealed that 7.5% of employers use networking sites as an informal part of the referencing process. The research also suggested that this number may rise as Facebook profiles are accessed quickly and easily through search engines. Traditional networking and recruiting can be time-consuming, costly and potentially risky for the employer. In the space of minutes, an ad can be sent out on Facebook, seen by thousands, replied to instantly and interviews arranged. For jobseekers, applications can be made instantly - in the middle of the night if necessary - and without the traditional awkward call to a receptionist first thing on a Monday morning. A simple search for \"jobs\" groups on Facebook throws up links to groups for midwives, IT specialists, graduates, Christmas jobs and even burlesque vacancies. It's a great tool for recruitment consultants who work on commission. There are even a few groups set up by enterprising jobseekers. Se\u00e1ny O'Kane (whom you may remember from his, ahem, \"star\" turn on this year's Big Brother) has set up a group dedicated to finding him employment. \"Can you take a risk and want me to go into business with you? What's [sic] your ideas? What would it [sic] like being a 'celebrity bricklayer?' Whatever the options are, everything will be considered and I will document the process over Facebook, keeping everyone up-to-date with the goings on.\" O'Kane's group has 425 members but, so far apparently, no job offers, though he does have 2,416 friends. One of the compliments regularly directed at Facebook is its relative simplicity and its programming elegance. While the teen-oriented MySpace enables the user to add songs and graphics to a profile, Facebook remains a simple name-location-friends format with optional extras. To vet someone's suitability on MySpace you frequently have to wade through all sorts of extraneous detail. This is good news for employers because they are able to determine very quickly who is a good networker (someone with 2,416 friends perhaps), what their interests are (by the groups they belong to) and even their political allegiance. Unless a candidate has gone to a great deal of trouble to fake their personality, it's a type of honest CV. Lopata adds, \"My own friends list contains a diverse network of people from friends, family and business contacts, so if I put a message up saying I am looking for someone, word gets round very fast.\" Perhaps in recognition of its debt to the site, Lawrence Harvey now allows its employees to access Facebook during lunchbreaks and at the end of the day. \"They realise that in moderation it can be a useful thing,\" says Tang. Prior to her jobsearch exercise, Tang's main use for Facebook was catching up with friends but she says she wouldn't rule out the possibility of using it again should she ever decide to move jobs. Twenty-nine-year-old Clare Lindley is a web developer at Numiko in Leeds who actively looked for work on Facebook. In July she responded to an ad posted on the site. \"Compared with large, dedicated IT jobsearch websites, the number of jobs is smaller,\" she says. \"However, it is certainly preferable to look at a short list of guaranteed, quality, peer-reviewed vacancies, than endless pages of search results.\" Lindley thinks that \"both employer and potential employees benefit from being able to communicate quickly and directly with each other. Employers can screen candidates right away without having to rely on going through an employment agency, and candidates know that they are in contact with the employer themselves\". Chris Morrall is a key account manager at Tiger Jobs in Gloucestershire. He found his job online. \"I saw the Marketplace application on Facebook and went to have a look,\" he says. \"I saw an ad from Tiger and liked what I saw. I liked the fact that they had advertised on Facebook.\" Tiger Jobs now actively recruits through the site and regularly receives speculative CVs. Morrall believes the revolution won't end there. \"I think the industry is changing. I foresee a time when we won't even have paper CVs, we'll have a video clip.\" But don't get carried away. Facebook still has its dangers. \"I know of people who have been fired because their boss saw profile updates suggesting that they were actively looking for work,\" says Morrall. Which may prove a good enough reason not to fire up your browser at work - or not if your boss befriends you, at any rate.",
  "title": "Hire profile",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "money/money"
  ],
  "lead": "Embarrassing photos, inappropriate poking, bosses who want to be your friend - Facebook is a professional minefield. Unless you're looking for a job, says Hazel Davis",
  "id": "money/2007/nov/19/officehours.facebook",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}