{
  "content": "With the exception of the Dow Jones in the US, which is up by just 0.16%, markets are slightly lower. S&amp;P 500: -0.1% at 1,826.92 FTSE 100: -0.18% at 6,785.54 CAC 40: -0.22% at 4,330.34 DAX 30: -1.15 at 9,549.35 IBEX: -0.042% 10,011.2 FTSE MIB: -0.53% at 20,329.67 Returning to our first story of the day, here is some more reaction to Facebook's $19bn plan to buy WhatsApp. Vanessa Barnett, technology and media partner at law firm Charles Russell: This is a clear statement of intent on the part of Facebook. $19 billion is a hefty price tag, particularly given that previously Facebook had only paid $1 billion for Instagram. What can we take from this? Well, we could sit here and talk of bubbles and the early 21st Century, or we could say 'hey, you know what, there's value in the technology sector and this is another sign of confidence'. I'll go with the latter. We are seeing a growing number of sophisticated, well funded businesses in the technology sector coming to us for advice - particularly those who are harnessing apps/Internet technology for their business model. Global confidence in the sector bodes well for the UK. Watch out Silicon Valley! Pamela Clark-Dickson, senior analyst at Informa Telecoms &amp; Media: \ufeffWhatsApp has made a stunning exit, having been snapped up by social-networking giant Facebook for an initial US$16 billion in cash and Facebook shares, with another US$3 billion to be paid over the next four years. The deal values each of WhatsApp's 450 million monthly active users at US$42.20, and each of the company's 50 or so employees in excess of US$300 million. WhatsApp is able to command a premium by virtue of being the largest mobile messaging application in terms of monthly active users. WhatsApp was probably also in the unique position of not needing to sell, since it is able to generate revenue from its user base via a small annual subscription. Facebook's CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, clearly made WhatsApp an offer that the company could not refuse. WhatsApp must also have seen Facebook as the best fit for its application, given that the company must have had other suitors \u2013 most notably, Google was rumored to have offered to buy WhatsApp US$1 billion in 2013. It remains to be seen whether, and how, Facebook will recoup its substantial investment in the app. Will Stewart from the Institution of Engineering and Technology: \ufeffObviously WhatsApp adds instant messaging to Facebook which must strengthen their position for the moment. Equally, all app types rise and fade, so established social media formats like Facebook will be overtaken by something new, and picking up candidates that might have ultimately replaced them may be a good survival strategy for a while. This does show the growing significance of mobile, though of course Facebook is on mobile anyway. But, Facebook has been around a while now so the real question is what comes next? That's it for the blog today. Thanks as ever for reading and commenting, and please do come back again tomorrow. AM The chancellor George Osborne has been speaking in Hong Kong, before traveling to Sydney to attend the first G20 meeting of finance ministers of 2014. As well as commenting that the British economy is \"still too unbalanced\" (read our full story here), he said G20 economies should \"confront our problems instead of running away from them\". Among those problems, he said, was the possibility of a new crisis originating from emerging market volatility. \ufeffWe might have hoped that this would be the first time in five years that the G20 has met outside of a global crisis. The risk of a eurozone collapse has greatly receded, and the prospect of a destabilising standoff over the US fiscal position now looks much less likely. But as well as reasons to be cheerful, there are also reasons to be careful. Many economies in Europe remain very weak. Problems in the Middle East abound. And in recent months we have seen volatility in several emerging markets, with currencies weakening by up to 19%, bond yields spiking by up to 11%, and sudden falls in equities markets across Latin America and Asia. Most emerging markets are more robust than they were in the late 1990s, and in many cases flexible exchange rates are functioning correctly as shock absorbers. But if we have learnt anything from the recent Great Recession, it is that in this interconnected global economy one country's problem can very quickly become everyone else's problem.And acting early when risks emerge can head off much greater damage later on. My message here in Hong Kong is this: The risks to economic recovery have not gone away. Together we need to act now to ensure that emerging market problems don't contribute to a new crisis. How do we do that? By each one of us putting our own houses in order. And by using the G20 to make sure we all confront our problems instead of running away from them. As we meet in Australia, the G20 is more than capable of doing that; provided we focus on the important issues. But there is a danger that in Sydney and other such meetings we find ourselves distracted by a pointless debate about US and UK monetary policy\u2026 \u2026that the G20 descends into a blame-game and we miss the opportunity to drive through, together, the reforms that are necessary to safe-guard the global recovery. To avoid that happening we need to understand better what the last six years have taught us about how global coordination works. In particular we need to understand that international coordination can work and has worked when it holds governments to account for domestic reforms, but not when it tries to impose global macroeconomic policies that are against countries' own self interests. Fostering domestic resilience from the bottom up is the best way to build global resilience at the top. Read the full speech here. Sky has published a full story on Martin Weale's controversial comments. Apart from his statement that the first rise in interest rates is likely in spring 2015, some of his key points are: Rates could rise even sooner if wages growth accelerates It would be difficult to raise rates during the general election campaign, but the campaign will only last three weeks after all He would have more forcefully opposed the MPC's decision to issue forward guidance on rates [pegged to a 7% unemployment rate] had he realised how wrong the Bank's jobs forecast was The UK economy's spare capacity is probably smaller than the 1-1.5% of national income estimated by the Bank The rate of UK house price growth is a \"worry\" Extracts from Sky's story: Martin Weale, one of the nine members of the Bank's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), has given the most explicit guidance yet on when borrowing costs in Britain will rise from their current record low of 0.5%. In an exclusive interview, he said: \"I think it is very helpful if we try and explain that the most likely path for interest rates is that the first rise will come perhaps in the spring of next year. And then the path is likely to be relatively gradual.\" The comments indicate that the bank could be on track to raise borrowing costs before the General Election, slated for May 7, 2015. Mr Weale said: \"During an election campaign it would obviously be difficult (to change rates) but the election campaign will last for three weeks\". He said that if average earnings rise more quickly than expected in the coming months, \"I couldn't rule out the need for a rate rise coming earlier.\" Mr Weale, who was the one MPC member to vote against forward guidance last August, said he would have been even more forceful with his resistance had he realised how wrong the bank's forecasts for unemployment were. \"Had I thought that there was a substantial probability that because of the movement of unemployment that (forward guidance) would have a life of less than a year then I wouldn't have been enthusiastic,\" he said. Mr Weale also cast doubt on the bank's calculation, published last week, that there was still 1% to 1.5% of spare capacity - meaning the extent to which the economy can grow without pushing up inflation - left in the UK. He said what when one bore in mind that many of those who would like to work more would earn comparatively low salaries, \"the impact \u2026 is to drag down the impression you would have of the labour market output gap very considerably.\" He added that one major concern in the economy at present was the behaviour of the property market. \"I do worry that house prices are very elevated,\" he said. Martin Weale, a member of the Bank of England's nine-strong Monetary Policy Committee has told Sky News interest rates will rise in spring 2015. He said: The most likely path for interest rates is that the first rise will come perhaps in the spring of next year and the path thereafter is likely to be gradual.\ufeff It is the first time a senior Bank policymaker has given an explicit timeframe to expect the first rise in interest rates, which have been on hold at an all-time low of 0.5% since March 2009, during the aftermath of the collapse of US investment bank Lehman Brothers. The CBI's latest industrial trends survey suggests order books at output rose in Britain's manufacturing sector in January. Export orders improved, helped by car sales. Figures published by the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders on Thursday morning showed the number of cars built in the UK fell overall by 0.3% in January, but the numbers built for exports rose by 1.2% to 103,381. Anna Leach, the CBI's head of economic analysis, said: As the UK and global economies continue to strengthen over the coming months, we expect conditions to continue to improve for UK manufacturers and to increasingly feed through to business investment. Specifically, the survey of 380 manufacturers found that 26% of firms reported that total order books were above normal in February and 23% said they were below, giving a balance of +3% . It was higher than January and above the long-term average but below December's level. Howard Archer, chief UK economist at IHS Global Insight said the survey boded well for the first quarter of 2014 overall: The February CBI Industrial Trends survey indicates overall that the manufacturing sector is performing pretty well in the first quarter of 2013, but has come modestly off the peak levels seen in late-2013. There are no references in the CBI survey to manufacturing activity being affected by the flooding. Moving forward, manufacturers will be hoping that ongoing generally good news on the UK economy fuels improved business confidence which in turn translates into improved business investment and higher demand for capital goods. Meanwhile, improving global growth should help UK manufacturers' export orders as 2014 progresses, although the upside for export orders may well be constrained by only gradually improving domestic demand in the eurozone. Furthermore, UK manufacturers may be hampered by sterling's strength. The Office for National Statistics has delivered more gloomy news on UK productivity this morning. Output per worker in the UK was 25 percentage points below the average for the rest of the major G7 economies in 2012 - the widest productivity gap since 1992. Output per hour worked was 21 percentage points below the average, which was also the widest gap since 1992. Britain was outperformed in terms of productivity by the US, Canada, Germany, France and Italy, with only Japan faring worse. John Philpott, an expert on unemployment and director of independent consultancy The Jobs Economist, comments on the challenge facing the UK: \ufeffWe know UK labour productivity has been dire since the start of the recession. We now know our relative performance is even direr than first thought. Output per hour worked in 2012 was 25 percentage points below the average for the G7 major industrialised countries \u2013 the widest 'productivity gap' for two decades. Moreover, even though the UK economy has recovered since 2012 there is no evidence to suggest that the productivity gap is likely to have narrowed, leaving the UK still staring up the international productivity league table. According to the ONS output per hour in 2012 was 3 percentage points lower than in the pre-recession year of 2007 and would have been a whopping 16 percentage points higher had the pre-recession rate of growth been maintained. Though some of this latter growth may have been 'illusory' in that it was propelled by an unsustainable boom, the UK economy clearly needs in particular a strong resurgence of business investment in order to both start closing the productivity gap and to trigger a rise in real wages for people in work\". European investors have not taken kindly to China's shocking manufacturing PMI published by HSBC/Markit overnight, which showed the sector shrank for a second month in February. The flash PMI fell to 48.3 in February from 49.5 in January, which was the lowest level in seven months. Anything below 50 indicates contraction. The timing of the Chinese New Year festivities, which began on 31 January, probably affected factory output as manufacturers closed for the country's biggest annual holiday according to some analysts. The world's second largest economy grew by 7.7% in 2013, but Markit's Chris Williamson said China could struggle to grow by 7.5% in 2014. A combination of the weak data from China, a slight dip in the eurozone flash PMI, and minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) in the US, has sent European markets lower this morning: FTSE 100: -0.3% at 6,776.12 CAC 40: -0.33% at 4,326.71 DAX 30: -0.98% at 9,564.94 IBEX: -0.68% at 9,986.6 FTSE MIB: -1% at 20,231.30 The FOMC minutes suggested the committee will continue to slow its bond buying programme. Michael Hewson, chief market analyst at CMC Markets UK, had this to say: \ufeffThe minutes showed that Fed officials had few doubts about tapering asset purchases further at the January meeting. The minutes also showed that a further $10bn was more than likely in March, with only a couple of officials having reservations, and that forthcoming meetings could well see a change to the Fed's forward guidance mechanism, as the unemployment rate nears its guidance threshold. It would appear that the Fed is happy to look past the recent spate of bad data as being largely caused by the recent poor weather. You can certainly make a solid case for a slide in housing starts and building permits based on the recent weather patterns. A regional breakdown of the eurozone flash PMIs showed that again German companies are reporting a pick up in business while French firms are suffering a fall. In Germany, the private sector had the best month in February since June 2011, with strong demand boosting job creation in Europe's largest economy and allowing firms to raise prices. In France, business activity fell for a fourth month, and headcounts were cut at a faster pace than January. Markit said it represented a \"worrying renewed downturn in France, where malaise in the domestic economy is offsetting better export performance and suggests there is a risk of the French economy contracting again in the first quarter\". The rest of the region experienced a rise in activity for a seventh month, albeit at a slowing pace. In other news, the latest flash eurozone PMI from Markit suggest private sector recovery continued in February but at a slightly slower pace than January. The headline index slipped to 52.7 from 52.9 which was a two-month low. It still points to decent growth however, with the index firmly above the 50 mark which separates contraction from expansion. The dip in the PMI was driven by the currency union's manufacturing sector, which slipped to 53 from 54 on the index in February. Production and new orders in the sector both rose, but at a slower rate than January. On the bright side, employment in the sector rose for a second month. Activity in the eurozone's services sector rose at the sharpest pace in five months, climbing to 51.7 in February from 51.6 in January. Employment in the sector fell slightly however, as growth overall was fairly sluggish. Chris Williamson, Markit's chief economist, said the dip in the eurozone PMI was a reminder that \"the region's recovery continues to be uneven and fragile\". He added: The slight easing in growth is disappointing, but it's too early to read too much into one month's data, especially as the rate of growth of new orders picked up to its highest since mid-2011.Looking at the latest two months as a whole, the PMI suggests the region is on course to see GDP expand by up to 0.5% in the first quarter, which would be the strongest growth for three years. Unemployment looks set to remain a worry, as companies report ongoing pressure to keep headcounts down to reduce costs and boost competitiveness. Prices also continue to fall, albeit at the slowest rate for almost two years, as companies could often only generate sales via discounting. Blackberry was an instant winner after Facebook announced its $19bn plan to buy WhatsApp, with shares rising 9% in post market trading. It seems investors think the mega deal might suggest there is still some value to be gained from Blackberry - specifically through its popular Blackberry Messenger service - making it ripe for takeover. Here are some extracts from a Reuters piece: \ufeffFacebook Inc's stunning $19 billion bid for fast-growing mobile-messaging startup WhatsApp sent shares of BlackBerry Ltd surging after the closing bell on Wednesday, as investors were cheered by the lofty valuation for the messaging platform. The deal sent shares in BlackBerry up as much as 9 percent in trading after the bell because it put a rough valuation metric around the smartphone maker's own BlackBerry Messaging service. WhatsApp, with a user base of some 450 million, has grown rapidly. Its service works on Apple Inc's iOS platform, Google Inc's market-dominating Android operating system, along with devices powered by both the Windows and BlackBerry operating systems. BBM remains popular, even though BlackBerry devices have waned in popularity. Late last year, the Waterloo, Ontario-based smartphone maker finally opened the messaging platform to users of iPhones and Android devices, and the service currently has over 80 million active users. Facebook's valuation of WhatsApp translates into roughly $42 per user, and that could lead investors and analysts to rethink their valuation of the asset within BlackBerry. First a tweet from WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton back in 2009. Funny how things turn out sometimes... In a fuller statement, the 29 year old Facebook founder has outlined why he was willing to stake so much on WhatsApp. Our mission is to make the world more open and connected. We do this by building services that help people share any type of content with any group of people they want. More than 1 million people sign up for WhatsApp every day and it is on its way to connecting one billion people. WhatsApp will complement our existing chat and messaging services to provide new tools for our community. Facebook Messenger is widely used for chatting with your Facebook friends, and WhatsApp for communicating with all of your contacts and small groups of people. Since WhatsApp and Messenger serve such different and important uses, we will continue investing in both and making them each great products for everyone. WhatsApp had every option in the world, so I'm thrilled that they chose to work with us. I'm looking forward to what Facebook and WhatsApp can do together. I've also known Jan for a long time, and I know that we both share the vision of making the world more open and connected. Jan and the WhatsApp team have done some amazing work to connect almost half a billion people. I can't wait for them to join Facebook and help us connect the rest of the world. WhatsApp (a pun on what's up, of course) was founded in Silicon Valley in 2009 by Jan Koum and Brian Acton, who, in their own words, are \"two guys who spent combined 20 years doing geeky stuff at Yahoo! Inc. before starting WhatsAp\". The site allows you to exchange messages without the charges imposed for sending a text. For more info on what Facebook is getting for $19bn, read our piece here. Koum had this to say as the deal was announced: \ufeffWhatsApp's extremely high user engagement and rapid growth are driven by the simple, powerful and instantaneous messaging capabilities we provide. We're excited and honored to partner with Mark and Facebook as we continue to bring our product to more people around the world. Koum, 37, was born in a small village outside Kiev, Ukraine. He emigrated to the US when he was 16, moving to Mountain View, California, with his mother. After teaching himself computer networking, he enrolled at San Jose State University according to Forbes. It was in 1997 that he found himself inspecting Yahoo's advertising system, sitting opposite his future WhatsApp partner, Acton. Six months later Koum got a job himself at Yahoo, and the two became friends. In 2007 the pair left Yahoo and went traveling around South America. They shared another experience when they both applied to work at Facebook and were rejected. Koum came up with the idea for WhatsApp when he bought his first iPhone in 2009. This from Forbes: \ufeffIn January 2009, he bought an iPhone and realized that the seven-month old App Store was about to spawn a whole new industry of apps. He visited the home of Alex Fishman, a Russian friend who would invite the local Russian community to his place in West San Jose for weekly pizza and movie nights. Up to 40 people sometimes showed up. The two of them stood for hours talking about Koum's idea for an app over tea at Fishman's kitchen counter. Good morning, and welcome to our rolling coverage of events across the financial markets, the economy, the eurozone and business. Much excitement this morning as Facebook makes its biggest move yet - agreeing to pay $19bn (\u00a311.4bn) for mobile messaging site WhatsApp (which employs just 55 people). We will have all the detail and reaction to the deal here. In a statement announcing the deal, Facebook outlines some of the key points: Acquisition accelerates Facebook's ability to bring connectivity and utility to the world Leading mobile messaging company will continue to operate independently and retain its brand WhatsApp co-founder and CEO Jan Koum to join Facebook board of directors Some facts about WhatsApp: Over 450m people use the service each month 70% of those people active on a given day Continued strong growth, currently adding more than 1 million new registered users per day. And some words from Facebook's founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg: WhatsApp is on a path to connect 1 billion people. The services that reach that milestone are all incredibly valuable. I've known Jan for a long time and I'm excited to partner with him and his team to make the world more open and connected.",
  "title": "UK should expect first interest rate rise in spring 2015, BoE policymaker warns - as it happened",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "business/debt-crisis",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "lead": "Social networking stuns Wall Street with its biggest move yet, swooping on mobile messaging site to secure its future",
  "id": "business/blog/2014/feb/20/facebook-to-buy-whatsapp-for-19bn-live",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}