{
  "content": "Hurrah for Jonathan Myerson, (Dear Jacqui, please keep my DNA for as long as you like, 6 May). I did not realise that I would ever find anyone to agree with me about a DNA database which included people without a criminal record. I would even go further and suggest that everyone living in UK should be included on the register. Like Myerson, I cannot, for the life of me, see what harm it could cause to any innocent individual, nor can I believe it to be an invasion of my privacy or assault on my dignity. As Myerson states, there are already many more invasions on our dignity and of our privacy than would be afforded by a DNA database. The proposed new ID card is much more dangerous and could be used for identity theft, fraud, forgeries and the like whereas DNA is unique to the individual and its potential dangers are largely imagined. Charles Rowbotham Arnside, Lancashire Maybe I was unreasonably appalled by the police's behaviour in response the G20 protests, or maybe I was overly cynical regarding the machinations behind the Home Office's handling of Binyam Mohamad, or maybe I just take Orwell novels too seriously, but I simply do not have blind faith in the benevolence of the Home Office or the security services. Until they are more transparent and accountable, I would not trust them to make use of my DNA records for exclusively benevolent purposes. James Pugh Middlesbrough I am a long-standing civil libertarian and was chairman of Liberty in the 1970s. But, like Jonathan Myerson, \"I truly don't see how a universal [DNA] database could limit my civil liberties\". Your leader (7 May) says that respectable people would not take kindly to having their biological blueprint stored on a \"police computer\". Many indeed may. But why must the police hold the DNA database? In my submission to the Nuffield Council on Bioethics' consideration of the forensic use of bioinformation in 2007 I wrote: \"Underlying many of the concerns ... is the key question of custody and control of bioinformation. As long as possession of bioinformation is in the hands of the state or one of its agencies ... there will be suspicion, however unjustified it may be, that nefarious use will be made of it. These legitimate fears would be greatly allayed were control... to be removed from state agencies charged with law enforcement ... and placed four-square in the custody of a completely new body.\" Benedict Birnberg London Jonathan Myerson may well feel that a DNA database poses no threat to himself and is only a useful aid to the police. For myself, and I suspect many others, there are serious problems. I'll not overemphasise the state's holding such information as an infringement of liberty, but the fact of the police taking samples from everyone and keeping them regardless of charge or conviction seems over the top. What other country does this? And does that mean its potential to fight crime is inferior to ours? Ray Blakemore Tunbridge Wells, Kent Where I disagree with Jonathan Myerson is not the principle of the state having certain information about me but what that information is. From birth to death the only immutable thing about us is our DNA. Subscription to some databases, such as for loyalty cards, is optional; and if we choose to share personal information with corporations in exchange for perceived advantage, so be it. With others, such for as passports and driving licenses, inclusion is necessary for much of contemporary existence but is still, to an extent, optional. More importantly, information for these records can be amended (at least until biometric passports are introduced). You could even manage without a National Insurance number. In an age when realism about our existence is replacing faith, some of us treasure the fundamental security of our DNA. It is the ultimate personal indicator of our humanity and should not be casually accumulated by the state or anyone else without very good reason and with very great care. Hugh Datson Chipping Norton, Oxfordshire",
  "title": "Letters: Key questions over DNA testing",
  "lead": "Letters: Hurrah for Jonathan Myerson, (Dear Jacqui, please keep my DNA for as long as you like, 6 May)",
  "tags": [
    "politics/dna-database",
    "uk/police",
    "world/privacy",
    "law/uk-civil-liberties",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "politics/2009/may/08/letters-dna-database",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}