{
  "content": "A cold-calling company that has been pestering householders with automated calls on an \"industrial scale\" will be hit with a record fine next week. The fine, which will be issued by the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) on Wednesday, is believed to be in the region of \u00a3200,000 and is the latest move in a concerted crackdown by the ICO and other agencies on nuisance calls. In the last year, the ICO has received more than 180,000 complaints about nuisance calls, up from 160,000 two years earlier. These complaints are likely to be the tip of the iceberg as they are only those logged with the ICO. Hundreds of thousands of cold calls and unsolicited text messages each year are believed to go unreported. \"Cold calls are intensely annoying and make people very angry,\" the information commissioner, Christopher Graham, told the Observer. \"It's exciting that this year we have been able to close down operations, raid premises and issue huge fines to try to put a stop to this, but this is not a victimless crime and there is more that can be done.\" The ICO was given new powers earlier this year to crack down on nuisance calls, but Graham is now pressing the government to go further. He wants ministers to bring in tougher punishments for individuals who sell lists of phone numbers to cold-calling companies and in doing so breach data protection laws. At the moment the strongest punishment for unlawful disclosure of personal data is a fine from a magistrates' court. \"In the 2008 Criminal Justice and Immigration Act, a change was brought that would allow judges to imprison those who breach data protection laws,\" he said. \"This change was never commenced because it got caught up in the row over phone-hacking and was considered too hot to handle. Now is the time for ministers to unpark that legislation and toughen up on these criminals.\" The consumer group Which? is also calling for tougher sanctions against cold-calling \"factories\". A recent survey found that eight in 10 people support greater accountability over nuisance calls, including company directors being personally fined if their companies break the rules. \"Millions of us endure nuisance calls, so it's good to see the ICO hitting back at companies that break the rules,\" said Which? executive director Richard Lloyd. \"We now need to see senior executives held personally accountable if their organisation makes unlawful calls.\" While payment protection insurance (PPI) and accident claims are still the most common cause of cold calls, figures from the ICO \u2013 and, separately, from Citizens Advice \u2013 show nuisance calling has branched into new areas in the last year. A new nuisance call scandal hit the headlines last week when the ICO handed a \u00a375,000 fine to a company called Cold Calls Elimination for making unsolicited marketing calls about cold call blocking devices. It is the second time this year that the ICO has fined a company for cold calling people about cold call blocking equipment. Those who complained had signed up for the free Telephone Preference Service \u2013 which means they should not receive unsolicited sales or marketing calls. The ICO is currently monitoring another company doing the same thing and could issue another fine if that company is found to be in breach of the rules. Figures from Citizens Advice show that, of the 20,000 cases relating to cold calls that it dealt with last year, the top cause for complaint was about cold call blocking services. One victim of such calls, a 74-year-old woman living on her own and in receipt of pension credit, told the Observer she had been duped out of \u00a390 for a call-blocking device that she didn't need. \"I kept getting these [nuisance] calls three or four times a day. People selling windows or solar panels. I was getting more calls from them than from my own relatives,\" she said. \"Then I got this call from a company saying that they would charge only \u00a31.20 a month to stop these calls and so I ordered this gadget and I fixed it up and it didn't work. By that time, they had taken \u00a390 out of my bank account, but have never returned my calls.\" The ICO has also added a new \"charities\" category to its cold calls topics after reports last month that charities had sold the personal details of a dementia sufferer to conmen who tricked him out of thousands of pounds.",
  "title": "Cold-calling 'factory' gets record fine after 180,000 complaints last year",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "money/nuisance-calls",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology",
    "money/money",
    "money/consumer-affairs",
    "uk/uk",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "Watchdog wants jail for those who breach data protection laws by selling lists of phone numbers to companies",
  "id": "money/2015/sep/26/cold-calling-record-fine-complaints-data-protection",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}