{
  "content": "Today every area of business performance is tracked, assessed and evaluated. So you'd be forgiven for thinking that when it comes to analysing a company or brand's performance on Twitter, this too comes in for serious scrutiny. After all, there are plenty of metrics to measure performance on the social network \u2013 not least the number of followers and retweets. More and more of the UK's estimated 15 million Twitter subscribers use the social network to contact brands directly with questions, comments and complaints. So measuring and reporting performance on social media is as important as looking at how any other department is doing. The question is: are these metrics themselves valid and independent measures of performance? According to a study that used a new Twitter tracking service to assess the social media performance of top brands, some household names have a long way to go. The service, called Twystery, introduces the principles of mystery shopping into the world of social media, testing how effectively brands respond on their official Twitter feed. It works by assessing a brand's social media response rate, speed and quality of response. Crucially, the brands in the study were compared to each other by sector and overall. Thirty brands were each sent 30 different tweets by 30 regular twitter users. Overall, the top performers (scored out of 100) were Lloyds, NatWest, Morrisons, Barclays and HSBC. Looking at a sector level, financial services (78) and supermarkets (72) scored most strongly. A surprising finding was that the telecoms sector, an industry one may expect to be very familiar with Twitter, performed poorly, with a score of only 51 and an average response time of 11hr 6 min, almost twice as long as the overall average. This result was in part caused by BT and EE, which responded to 63% and 73% of tweets, respectively. The worst average response time we came across was from EE at 19hr 47 min. For businesses that believe their investment in Twitter is paying off based on the number of followers and volume of activity, it might be time to delve a little deeper. This research suggests there is considerable scope for improvement by some of our leading brands. There is a famous saying \"what gets measured gets done\": consistent and independent measurement of social media performance, including benchmarking against immediate competitors and other leading brands, could certainly help improve performance and deliver that all-important \"customer engagement\". A recent article published here suggested that UK businesses lag companies in the US on social media spending, with many viewing it as a \"box-ticking exercise, directed by a misplaced desire to ensure that the company has a presence on the same channels as its competitors\". Our research suggests there is truth in that comment. What's disappointing is that some of the UK's biggest companies and brands are missing out on the opportunity to have a real dialogue with their customers. Here are five easy wins for any CEO wanting to improve their company's Twitter strategy. The first rule of engaging on social media is \u2026 engage. If a customer asks you a question, then you really must respond. Seize the opportunity. The tweeter has approached you, so start a dialogue. There's no cost of acquisition. The (potential) customer is already listening \u2013 as is everybody else. Put some effort in. Watch out for typos, sloppy punctuation and poor grammar. It speaks volumes about your brand if your response appears rushed or careless. Get the appropriate balance \u2013 for your brand \u2013 between formal and casual. Enquirers can expect a business-like response, even within just 140 characters. Answer the question. If you can't answer it there and then, acknowledge this and then follow up shortly after. Tweet them the answer later, or get them to direct message you to set up a call. Of course, you could always follow the example of T-Mobile's US CEO John Legere. He certainly follows rule one, but as for the others \u2013 not so much. He has an unconventional style when it comes to public proclamations. Last June he told customers of AT&amp;T and Verizon \u2013 T-Mobile's two biggest rivals \u2013 that they \"are raping you for every penny you have ... the fuckers hate you\". He later apologised. He frequently uses Twitter to admonish his rivals (he had a well-publicised spat with the head of Blackberry) but, unlike most other CEOs, he also uses it to personally intervene with individual customers' issues. Of his hands-on involvement, he says: \"I am T-Mobile and vice versa. That means I say it like it is \u2026 I don't worry about listening to critics. I worry about listening to customers. There are too many problems to fix in this industry.\" He's certainly doing something right. He now has 10,000 tweets to his name, and more than 1 million followers. The effects don't appear to be limited to social media. In January 2013, shortly after he took over, the T-Mobile (who form a part of EE in the UK) market share was 8.4%. In December 2014, it had jumped to 10%, surpassing its nearest rival, Sprint, at 8.6%. Tim Barber is director at BDRC. More from the research is available here More like this: \u2022 Substance over style: can being socially responsible save American Apparel? \u2022 What does the rise of digital marketing mean for luxury brands? To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership. All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \"Brought to you by\" \u2013 find out more here.",
  "title": "Brands must take advantage of Twitter's personal touch",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media-network/media-network",
    "media/marketingandpr",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": "A box-ticking exercise, or an essential element of customer interaction? A new study measures how effective brands are on social media",
  "id": "media-network/2015/feb/24/brands-twitter-personal-touch-marketing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}