{
  "content": "In the social media world, Instagram is often viewed as the slightly narcissistic younger sibling of Twitter. Though often dismissed as the home of celebrity selfies and paleo lunches, visual social media platforms such as Instagram have plenty of untapped potential for local councils. Why? Well for starters, they are incredibly popular. Last week, Instagram announced via its blog that its community has grown to almost 200 million. Pinterest now boasts a global user base of 70 million. They're also expedient, cutting out the text along with the time. In addition, the colourful, community-orientated nature of local government can lend itself to visual communication \u2013 particularly in Australia. Working in communications at the Local Government Association of Queensland, the peak body representing 77 diverse local councils in Queensland, Australia, I've seen first-hand how geographical location influences the roles and responsibilities of a council within its community. From beach cleaners sweeping the sands at dawn to outback council rangers and conservationists keeping an eye on the local croc population, a picture in these instances really does say a thousand words. In the vast majority of cases in Queensland, council staff live and work in their own local government area. It does tend to simplify a few things when your target audience is in your own backyard. Councils are starting to switch on to what is an inexpensive and clever way of sharing their narrative, empowering their communications team and staff to contribute. Coastal council Redlands city recently launched a #RedlandsLocal Instagram campaign, encouraging residents and visitors to share their pictures using the hashtag. Cairns regional council showcase their arts and culture profile via an Instagram run by art gallery staff, who profile local exhibitions and workshops from the inside. Brisbane city council, the largest council in Australia, has used the tool for a more practical purpose \u2013 gathering feedback for their Draft Youth Strategy . Young Brisbanites were encouraged to visually share their views or ideas by posting them to Instagram, Pinterest or Tumblr using the hashtag #bneSYP. The results were collated in an online social hub, pulling in submitted pictures of skate parks, music venues and street art via the hashtag. People engage with what they know. In the right light (or moody 70s Instagram filter), the library you walk past every day, or the community pool you visit on a regular basis becomes a source of local pride \u2013 yours to defend and promote. Tips for best practice 1. Showcase the work of your council from the inside out. Don't discount the day-to-day organisational activities and culture of your council office. 2. If you're encountering barriers within the council to utilising a visual social media site as part of your communications, try hammering your point home by sharing examples of the way other councils are using social media to showcase and promote their work. 3. Not many Instagram users in your community? Not to worry, Instagram made it possible anyone to view Instagram accounts via desktop late last year at instagram.com. 4. Scour the web for online graphic design tools such as canva.com, an unbelievably user-friendly toolthat will allow you to create slick-looking infographics. Have a rate rise or policy issue you want residents to understand? Break it down visually. 5. Use hashtags to allow people to seach and find your content. Remember that you can record video and upload it to Instagram, so don't be afraid to mix it up. Visual social media platforms allow councils to offer residents a view into the world behind the services they provide. Let the pictures tell your tale! Samantha Dean is a communications officer at the Local Government Association of Queensland. She is currently facilitating a series of workshops across the state geared toward best practice use in social media within councils. Follow the LGAQ on Twitter @LGAQ. \u2022 How to hold a council meeting on Facebook \u2022 Digital innovation in local government: projects from around the world \u2022 Councils embrace social media \u2022 Want your say? Email sarah.marsh@theguardian.com to suggest contributions to the network. Not already a member? Join us now for more comment, analysis and the latest job opportunities in local government.",
  "title": "It's not just for #selfies \u2013 Australian councils share their work via Instagram",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "public-leaders-network/public-leaders-network",
    "public-leaders-network/local-government",
    "public-leaders-network/service-delivery",
    "technology/instagram",
    "media/social-media",
    "society/localgovernment",
    "society/society",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Australia lends itself to beautiful pictures, prompting authorities in the country to use visual social media platforms inventively",
  "id": "local-government-network/2014/apr/09/australian-councils-share-work-instagram-social-media",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}