{
  "content": "A long running legal battle has been settled between a news agency and the Beckhams after aerial pictures of the couple's garden appeared in national newspapers. David and Victoria Beckham claimed Nick Stern of the Hertfordshire news agency First News breached their privacy when he sold aerial shots of their garden to the News of the World. The pictures, taken from a helicopter, showed a miniature fortress the Beckhams were building in the grounds of their Hertfordshire home for their two sons, Brooklyn and Romeo. After the story appeared in the News of the World, the Daily Mirror and the Daily Express the Beckhams' lawyers, Harbottle &amp; Lewis, wrote to Stern accusing him of harassment, and of invading the couple's privacy in contravention of the Human Rights Act. The case was eventually settled, with Stern agreeing to pay \u00a36,000, which amounted to the profit made on those and other aerial pictures taken of the house. But the Beckhams were forced to stop construction work on the fort after local authorities, apparently alerted by the newspaper coverage, got in touch to complain they did not have planning permission. The case was finally settled at a costs hearing on Friday, when high court official Master Turner ruled that the legal costs of the case should be split. Stern was ordered to pay both sides' legal costs up to April 2005, when an offer of \u00a36,000 damages was made. But the Beckhams were told to pay both sides' costs from April, which are understood to be between \u00a340,000 and \u00a360,000. The celebrity couple are also suing the News of the World for libel over claims that they falsely claimed to be happily married. The case is expected to go to court later this year if it cannot be settled. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Photographer pays damages to Beckhams",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/privacy",
    "football/football",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "lead": ": A long running legal battle has been settled between a news agency and the Beckhams after aerial pictures of the couple's garden appeared in national newspapers. By Claire Cozens",
  "id": "media/2006/jan/24/privacy.football1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}