{
  "content": "Reports of your friends - and everyone else's friends - being adrift in a war-torn place where strangely enough they can somehow manage to update their Facebook profile to say \"Send money!\" are exaggerated. But Facebook has a problem: \"Nigerian scammers\" - by which we mean scammers of any nationality, but aiming to get money off you by conning you - have infiltrated it and are breaking into accounts, and using them to send messages pleading for money. And of course because it appears to come from a friend, people are more likely to believe it. This isn't new - there have been dozens of scams around, and there was a similar problem on MySpace. But Trend Micro tells us about a scam where you can follow the whole thread, from innocent email to innocent site to email harvesting to cybercrime. We'll let Trend Micro take up the story. \"The scam starts off with a message sent to the user on their Facebook wall, myspace or bebo page: \"Did you know that your profile pic is all over gabblebase.com?\" When you go to the site it asks for Name, Friend's Name and an email address (harvesting email addresses to sell them on). If you go to gabblebase (it's not a malicious link itself, so it's ok to click on it) you can follow the steps through by using a fake identity to see how it works. \"Having researched gabblebase, it is actually linked to a server in Las Vegas owned by someone called Adam Arzoomanian. Further investigation reveals that he owns 423 domains in total (to avoid being blocked by filters).\" OK - you can search for Arzoomanian, but I wouldn't trust any of those profiles to be real. Because this is an email harvesting scam. And how much is email harvesting worth? Trend Micro found a Chinese site called dreamstarmail, which offers a multi-level-marketing (MLM - your grown-up pyramid scheme) system: \"Members will earn 20% of their direct referral earnings, 10% of their indirect referral level earnings, 5% of their 3rd level referral earnings, 3% of their 4th level referral earnings, 2% of their 5th level referral earnings and 1% of their 6th level referral earnings..\" And how much is an email address worth? According to the site, \"All Emails Worth at least 5 cents\". So now you know. Rik Ferguson of Trend Micro says: \"Email address harvesting is a tried and tested ploy for cybercriminals, and they can employ various methods to achieve their goal. These include; harvesting bots which crawl the internet retrieving email addresses from web site, news groups and mailing lists, dictionary based attacks or Directory Harvesting attacks against mail servers, where an automated tool guesses common names and combinations of names against any given domain, those that are not rejected are harvested as \"good\". Of course there is the well known marketing campaign approach where a product or service is offered free of charge on the provision of a valid email address (and perhaps you'd like to recommend five or ten friends too!). This Picture scam is a variant on that theme, where people are misled into believing that photos of them or belonging to them have been uploaded onto a public website. In order to see those pictures they are asked to enter their email address. Worryingly, as they step though the process to gain access to these non-existent photos, users are also asked to create a password. This neat little social engineering trick is relying on users' habit of using common passwords, now the cybercriminal has your email and your password. It's payday.\" And from there it's only a short step to infesting your and your friends' Facebook accounts with scams. Which brings us back to where we started from...",
  "title": "How a Facebook scam leads to a Chinese email harvesting site - and back again",
  "lead": "A scam where you can follow the whole thread, from innocent email to innocent site to email harvesting to cybercrime",
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/facebook",
    "money/scamsandfraud",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/email"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/blog/2008/nov/11/facebook-scam-email-china",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}