{
  "content": "\u2022 For the Daily Mail, Snapchat is high on the list of reasons why Britain (especially young Britain) is going to hell in a handcart. The messaging service was the topline and also in the frame in its report on the murder of Angela Wrightson: \"Slaughtered on Snapchat: that's the social media site where two giggling girls aged 13 and 14 posted photos as they beat a woman to death\" (a follow-up piece called them the \"Snapchat killer girls\"). Along with Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, \"the new favourite, Snapchat\" was named and shamed in a John Humphrys rant in the Mail for infernally \"sparking an urge in millions of users to manipulate social media as a platform to show off\". An article offering pre-exam tips for parents called it a ruinously \"addictive\" distraction that left kids incapable of concentration and learning. So Monkey was puzzled to see the paper named in Broadcast (together with the hipper likes of BuzzFeed and Vice) as one of 18 UK publishers \"to have forged an official relationship with Snapchat\"; that sounds not so much like supping with the Devil, in the context of the Mail's coverage of it, as using his catering service. \u2022 As well as a pioneering female architect, the late Zaha Hadid was also a sometime guest editor on Today and Monkey enjoyed stumbling on a blog written about that experience in 2009 by Peter Hanington (a former Today stalwart, who has just published a first novel drawing \u2013 sometimes mischievously \u2013 on his 14 years on the Radio 4 show): \"At one of our early meetings we sat at a tableful of prototypes for various Hadid projects currently in production. Today programme: Ah, that's beautiful. Is that the Abu Dhabi Performing Arts Centre? Zaha: No, that's a coffee pot. Today: Oh. How about that \u2013 more kitchenware? Zaha: No. That's the Vitra Fire Station in Germany. Today: Right. What about this? The Glasgow Transport museum? Zaha: No, that's a shoe. Are there any other producers who might want to work on my programme?\" \u2022 Profiling John Whittingdale in Tatler, Quentin Letts adds valuably to our knowledge of the instincts that could guide the culture secretary when he finally takes the BBC, Channel 4 and press regulation out of his in-tray and makes the long-awaited relevant decisions. We knew that the cult sec was and is a heavy metal maniac, but the Tatler piece reveals that he \"likes punk too, and spent many a night in his youth [he turned 17 in 1976] pogoing to bands promoting spiky-haired rebellion\". Monkey would be keen to hear from anyone with photographic or film evidence of a Winchester schoolboy resembling Whitto (whose hairstyle looks to date from his teenage years) pogoing at local or London gigs in punk's 70s heyday, particularly if it was \"Anarchy in the UK\" that got him so sweaty; and naturally any images of him \"gobbing\" (spitting) or sporting a mohican, would be especially warmly welcomed, rewarded with Monkey merchandising and forwarded for possible negotiational use to Tony Hall and David Abraham. \u2022 Whittingdale's DCMS junior minister Ed Vaizey, meanwhile, deserves applause for sounding off last week about diversity - they've \"got to stop making excuses\", fumed the government's culture commander and MP for Wantage as he urged orchestras to look for young talent that wasn't white and middle class. But might it be time for him and his colleagues to stop making excuses too? Besides peer's son the Hon Ed (47, ed St Paul's and Oxford), the DCMS ministerial line-up consists of Whittingdale (56, ed Winchester and UCL) and Baroness Neville-Rolfe (63, ed convent schools and Oxford), with another baroness in the form of Joanna Shields (53, ed in US). In gender terms, at least, the department isn't doing badly; but three are toffs, all are white, all are heterosexual and all (although Tracey Crouch, 40, only just qualifies) are middle-aged. And then there's the 10 Angry Men, plus one woman, of Jesse Norman's DCMS select committee. \u2022 Monkey will be heading on Thursday to Poldark: Anatomy of a Hit, a panel event promising to tell the \"inside story\" of its success organised by the Royal Television Society (making the RTS look two-faced, as the Cornish drama was completely snubbed in its recent programme award nominations). Not for the chance to see Ross and Demelza since the actors won't be there, despite the shameless use of a topless photo of Aidan Turner to promote the love-in. No, the big attraction is BBC-to-ITV defector Polly Hill, who has changed her job and reportedly doubled her salary since the RTS line-up including her - as the BBC executive who oversaw the hit show - was announced. ITV's newly installed drama chief is bound to face tricky moments once the inevitable gushing gives way to questions from the audience, which might include whether it was only possible to adapt Winston Graham's novels (again) because of the BBC's un-ITV-like willingness to take risks; and whether, or how soon, Ross and Demelza might follow her to ITV, given that the series is made by Mammoth which the commercial broadcaster pointedly acquired last June soon after Poldark's first run ended.",
  "title": "Media Monkey: John Whittingdale pogos, Poldark and Snapchat",
  "lead": "Daily Mail links to the app it hates, Zaha Hadid's best Today moments and Ed Vaizey plays up on diversity",
  "tags": [
    "media/dailymail",
    "media/media",
    "politics/john-whittingdale",
    "politics/ed-vaizey",
    "tv-and-radio/poldark",
    "technology/snapchat"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/mediamonkeyblog/2016/apr/10/john-whittingdale-punk-poldark-snapchat",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}