{
  "content": "I call it the Glaze. It's the sudden slack-faced gape of a normal person who's been chatting and joking, when suddenly they get an email on their iPhone. They have to look. Then they have to reply, open-mouthed, dabbing at the glass like toddlers at the aquarium. Online activity instantly renders any mammal, even a mouse, clinically dead for the duration of the session. Fact. High-level studies prove, furthermore, that the internet was created by evil quantum physicists to negate all time, space and frontal lobe activity. That's why you can spend hours online and come away not remembering anything. MySpace has been sucked into its own black hole recently, cutting 500 employees and admitting that they're no longer battling binary codes with Facebook, who have won the social networking war. Alas, having good social networks is not the same as having good social skills. MySpace is now a \"social entertainment destination\". But downloading nobodies' dreadful music videos alone is neither social nor entertaining. Still, it's more fun than Wikipedia, which celebrates its 10th anniversary today. Like many 10-year-olds, its grip on reality isn't strong. I once read my own Wikipedia page and found myself in a Bizarro nightmare, paralysed, unable to protest, reading a fairytale about my doppelganger. I cried out with bathos: \"That's not my name . . . those aren't my parents . . . and I never did that job, but thanks anyway.\" Sure, they trawled my university matriculation records to find some incorrect and legally and personally sensitive data, but it would be easy to change, right? I emailed the Wiki editor and told him it was a violation and against my consent. His response demonstrated why the internet is a haven for faceless, hate-filled losers relishing their three bytes of power: \"Consent is irrelevant.\"",
  "title": "Bidisha's thought for the day: the online sub-life",
  "lead": " However you look at it, the online world is a soulless, brain-dead place",
  "tags": [
    "technology/iphone",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/myspace",
    "technology/wikipedia"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2011/jan/15/bidishas-thought-for-the-delay-online",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}