{
  "content": "Personally, no, but many people will. Like other social networks, the 3D online environment is a gathering place for real-life and virtual couples and singles, and the in-world events calendar is already stacked with Valentine-themed social functions in all time zones and catering to all languages. Second Life residents can expect a huge variety of activities, from romantic cinema screenings to virtual speed dating. The interactivity of virtual environments offers many levels of intimacy and offers ripe playgrounds for developing shared experiences. In this space, the unique selling point is its collaboration, and it's ideally situated for creative self-expression. People separated by distance can still enjoy activities that build relationships, like achieving goals together while solving problems and overcoming obstacles. In online community research, people who meet online - or hang out online with people they already know offline - say these experiences cement emotional relationships in ways that are often stronger than in social ties formed offline. But since the in-world voice service launched in Second Life in 2007, people have been able to interact in audio instead of via text, supporting extra dimensions of intimacy. It also ensures that the person on the other end of that attractive avatar is indeed the gender they say they are. For couples separated by distance, the voice service can be a boon; they can retain the emotional closeness in an environment that supports collaborative play. Of course, there comes a time when it's best to bring a relationship back offline, but as a stand-in for physical proximity, Second Life and other virtual worlds are rich environments for meeting across the miles. \u00b7 Aleks Krotoski is an independent researcher currently working at Linden Lab, creator of Second Life.",
  "title": "Are you spending Valentine's Day in Second Life?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/secondlife",
    "technology/games",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/internet",
    "lifeandstyle/lifeandstyle",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/virtualworlds",
    "lifeandstyle/relationships",
    "technology/3d",
    "lifeandstyle/valentines-day",
    "technology/mmorpg"
  ],
  "lead": "The 3D online environment is a gathering place for real-life and virtual couples and singles, with an in-world events calendar is packed with Valentine-themed social functions",
  "id": "technology/2008/feb/14/secondlife.dating",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}