{
  "content": "Suppose we open the News of the World on Sunday and find pictures of a nude Gordon Brown engaging with prostitutes in a scenario seeming to allude to German history. He would be out of No 10 by lunchtime. And why? Some would feel simple moral revulsion at a national figurehead's conduct; others, while insisting that consenting use of genitalia is private, would justify resignation on the grounds that he was using public money to fund his fetishes, and that any future summit with Angela Merkel would be a laughing stock. Max Mosley, though, runs an organisation - formula one - which is the opposite of a public body. Grand prix racing is notorious as the only major sport owned privately by a few men. Mosley takes money from the public, through tickets and TV fees, but he is not state-paid or nation-representing - the basis for kicking out Brown. So, on these criteria, Mosley stays. Ah, no, the response comes, any public figure has a duty to uphold certain standards. And yet formula one is not the Church of England. What values might the grand prix business stand for? Three that come easily to mind are personal gratification, greed and risk-taking. Mosley's sex life can be said to have upheld these principles. Mosley, who is threatening legal action against the News of the World, has not denied involvement in the sex, but denies any Nazi or concentration camp themes, and argues that the activities were private. This defence echoes the comments of Ken Livingstone after being forced by newspaper interest to admit that he has three more children than his Who's Who entry lists. The mayor of London has said the public must understand the difference between privacy (quantity of offspring and sexual partners) and secrecy (concealment of illegal or suspect activities.) This is an intelligent distinction that will win sympathy in liberal sections of the electorate and press. The difficulty for Mosley is that his alleged activities instinctively feel both private and secret. It's also quite clear that London would now be choosing between Boris Johnson and Brian Paddick if it had been Livingstone in the News of the World's video. The problem has always been where the line should be drawn, partly because the boundaries shift. Forty years ago, divorce could end the career of a children's entertainer; now, the disqualifying threshold seems to be use of class-A drugs. But is this morality now solid, or might there be a future in which a known cokehead can continue being cheeky for pre-schoolers on TV? The latter seems unlikely but the fluidity of definitions is a constant difficulty. A common view, sanctified by the Press Complaints Commission, is that there must be a direct connection - usually hypocrisy or conflict of interest - between private and public conduct. So a bishop's mistress is a different matter from a baker's. But this rule is difficult for Mosley. Just as the children of a home secretary must expect more scrutiny of their drug use than the average adolescent, so the son of the leader of the British Union of Fascists needs to be extra careful, even behind closed doors, about touching certain sores. However, even a divided society must agree that certain private actions make it impossible to head a public organisation. These are proven racism (or other discrimination) or unwanted sexual attention, whether rape, paedophilia or harassment. Mosley can argue that his sex life is consenting. But he has to prove that his preferred perversity was, as it were, innocent. If it proves to have any hint of anti-semitic or pro-Nazi sentiment, then, regardless of how it ceased to be private, he must leave any public role at the speed of a Ferrari. But if he's got five kids by three different women, that's his business. comment@theguardian.com",
  "title": "Mark Lawson: A formula for morality",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "sport/motorsports",
    "media/media",
    "sport/sport",
    "world/world",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Mark Lawson: The boundaries between public and private life are hardly clear-cut for the son of a fascist leader",
  "id": "commentisfree/2008/apr/05/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}