{
  "content": "The government yesterday revealed another disturbing loss of citizens' data when the transport secretary disclosed that a computer disc had gone missing that contained the records of more than 3 million driving test applicants, including their names, home addresses, email addresses and telephone numbers. The disc was lost from a \"secure store\" in Iowa in the US midwest by private firm Pearson Driving Assessments in May, but this was not relayed either to Westminster or to the police. Ministers yesterday responded by setting up an advice line to help drivers understand the potential significance of the error. Kelly apologised for the latest data embarrassment, but stressed the missing disc did not contain personal bank account, national insurance or credit card numbers. Whitehall officials argued that most of the data is available in telephone directories. Nevertheless, the loss adds to the challenge the government faces in persuading the public that the benefits of data-sharing in the government outweighs the risks. Kelly was unhappy that she had only been informed of the loss at the end of last month. It emerged in a trawl of government procedures by the cabinet secretary, Sir Gus O'Donnell, set up in the wake of the loss of 25 million child benefit records by Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs. An interim report from O'Donnell published yesterday revealed that four government departments - the Treasury, the Department for Work and Pensions, the Ministry of Defence and the Crown Prosecution Service - had felt forced to tighten data handling procedures in the wake of the child benefit fiasco. A separate interim report specifically into the HMRC loss written by Kieran Poynter, chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers, and published yesterday by the chancellor, Alistair Darling, criticised HMRC's complex management structure, saying \"roles and responsibilities do not relate to accountability\". Darling was forced to confirm to MPs that there had been a further breach of HMRC security due to a burglary at a Coventry HMRC store at the weekend. It is the eighth known security breach this year. He also admitted that a letter from HMRC apologising to families over the loss of child benefit had itself contained too much personal information, some of which was liable to have gone astray. Darling promised to bring in tougher laws to prosecute the wilful misuse of data, so those found guilty may be imprisoned rather simply fined, as at present. Kelly yesterday criticised Pearson Driving Assessments, a contractor to the Driving Standards Agency, for failing to inform the police of the disc's loss. She also said the drive had been formatted to fit Pearson configurations and as such was not readily usable or accessible by third parties. Kelly told the information commissioner, Richard Thomas, of the loss on Friday. He advised her there was no need to send notification to individuals. The lost data covers every applicant for a driving theory test between September 2004 and April 2007. The shadow transport secretary, Theresa Villiers, attacked ministers, pointing out that only a year ago they had promised to get a grip on data security in their department. She said: \"This latest debacle shows a systemic failure within the government's data protection controls. The words Labour and incompetence are now synonymous. \"The importance of confidentiality for the DfT's agencies is particularly acute given the value of vehicle and driver details to car criminals and rogue drivers.\" The acting Liberal Democrat leader, Vince Cable, said: \"If data and valuable information is consistently lost or stolen or abused, the public completely lose confidence in government ... it is very difficult to see how we can be confident of the government proceeding with much more ambitious initiatives, not just the compulsory ID cards scheme, but the DNA database and the NHS spine.\" The shadow justice secretary, Nick Herbert, also questioned why the information had ever been sent overseas.",
  "title": "Personal details of millions of learner drivers lost by contractor in Iowa",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": " Ruth Kelly apologises for latest lapse in data security \n Missing disc 'not readily usable by third parties'",
  "id": "politics/2007/dec/18/uk.uknews4",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}