{
  "content": "Five years ago, a young man by the name of Rob Delaney, 30 years old and living in California, was, by his own admission, having a bit of a tough time. He'd had tougher times for sure, having survived, in brutally quick succession, alcoholism, a near-fatal drink-driving accident and severe depression, but this was definitely another challenge. He'd recently walked away from a well-paid job where he had \"an office in a skyscraper\" to devote himself to standup. \"And I immediately went into abject poverty,\" he recalls. Like many before him, he discovered that comedy, as a career, is not always a load of laughs. Half a decade later, Delaney is one of the sensations of the US scene. He regularly tops audience polls, and has an enormous, devoted following. When it was announced that he would do a week of shows in London next month, tickets sold out in an hour. How all this came to be can be summed up in one word, a very simple one and, in Delaney's eyes, a slightly embarrassing one: Twitter. Delaney is huge on Twitter, so much so that he can refer to himself, without a wince, as \"a content provider\". As I write, he has 600,000 followers, though it will doubtless be many more by the time you read this, and he has accrued them in just three years; he joined the site in 2009 when he realised it was \"a wonderful joke delivery mechanism\". His tweets, which range from the political to the puerile, have gained such traction that his comments about Mitt Romney, portraying the presidential candidate as a square, stupid bigot (\"Ha ha ha! Terrific! \u2013 Mitt Romney, every time Jar Jar Binks appears on screen\"; \"Healthcare should be decided by individual states, cuz y'know, Texas cancer is like, different from Colorado cancer? \u2013 Mitt Romney\") are more popular than Romney's own tweets, according to Business Week. So Twitter has been good to him, enabling him to live his dream. But when we meet in a London hotel, Delaney \u2013 a handsome bear of a man with a demeanour that oscillates between deadpan and thoughtful \u2013 is ambivalent about the blogging service. Not once does he check his smartphone; his eloquence and enthusiasm dims when I drop the T word. \"I feel silly about everything that's happened from it. I'm happy, of course, because I was doing standup for a while and pursuing all the traditional angles, and Twitter's just rocketed me to a whole new level.\" But he talks in the jaded tones of one who has wearied of the virtual world: \"You and I will be around a lot longer than Twitter, and nothing substitutes face to face. I use Twitter as a tool to get involved with people, to sell tickets to gigs where I can stand in a room and smell the audience \u2013 and I love that! I want to smell them. Not each of them individually because that would be against the law \u2026\" Like Louis CK and Chris Rock, two of the greatest US standups alive today, Delaney's delivery is fast but brilliantly structured, profane but deeply moral, with none of the lazy misogyny or stereotyping too many comics use as a crutch. I went to see him earlier this year in Washington DC, green about what to expect, and could hardly speak afterwards, I was so winded from laughing. It's also very different from his Twitter feed, far more personal and less obviously political. \"With Twitter, you just want to make people laugh in their meeting; on stage, people have paid for their tickets with their hard-earned money so I owe them the truth as I experience it,\" he says. \"Plus, if I have to do the same show 100 times, I have to care very much about what I'm talking about.\" One of the many things he cares very much about is women's pubic hair. Specifically, the preservation of it. \"Oh yeah, definitely, but forgive me if I don't make eye contact with you while I talk about this because I do consider myself a gentleman,\" he says, which, coming from the man who frequently sends jokily salacious tweets to the pop star Adele, is as surprising as his self-distancing from Twitter. \"I mean, Jesus Christ, hair suggests sexual maturity, which I find attractive, as a lot of men do. But we have these big companies like Proctor &amp; Gamble, trying to sell products by making people feel bad about themselves, and they train their cannons more on women. And that, to me, is fundamentally wrong. It's a sin. I want people to feel good about themselves.\" Delaney was born in Boston and grew up wanting to be an actor. After graduating from college in New York, he moved to Los Angeles where he was somewhat sidetracked by alcoholism, a problem that came to an end when he was 25 and ploughed a car into the LA Department of Water and Power. \"When I came back into consciousness I asked the doctors and police if I had killed anyone, and I thought, if they say yes I'll wait until I get left alone and I'll kill myself, and if they say no, I am not drinking any more. They told me no, and I have not drunk or done any drugs since.\" He spent 24 hours in jail, and the judge gave him a choice between a prison sentence or rehab. He chose the latter. He also, at that point, decided to devote his life to comedy, \"because when I felt that I had a second chance I wanted to laugh and make people laugh.\" Then, a year later, he was walloped with depression. \"I think during that first year I was like, 'I can't believe I'm alive!' But then I let my defence mechanism down and went into a very bad depression in which I seriously considered suicide,\" he says, talking a little slower and lower. \"My depression was much more pummelling than the alcoholism because, with alcoholism, you can push away the feelings of horror by getting drunk. You don't get that with depression. Instead, it was a voice telling me, all day and all night, 'Kill yourself. Kill yourself.' \" Eventually, he went to a psychiatrist and was prescribed medication. The depression returned a few years ago when Delaney tried to cut down, and he has \"now achieved peace\" with the idea of being on tablets for the rest of his life. Being married and becoming a father, with one young child and another on the way, also helps, \"because it takes you out of that loop of selfishness in a wonderful way\". \"Depression taught me the importance of compassion and hard work, and that you can overcome enormous obstacles,\" he says simply. \"But also the importance of what's real. That's what matters.\" His iPhone, I notice, remains firmly in his pocket.",
  "title": "Rob Delaney: 'Twitter has rocketed me to a whole new level of standup'",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "stage/comedy",
    "technology/twitter",
    "culture/comedy",
    "stage/stage",
    "media/media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "lead": "US standup Rob Delaney has become a comedy sensation thanks to Twitter. He talks to Hadley Freeman about tweet fatigue, his battle with booze \u2013 and why nothing beats face to face",
  "id": "stage/2012/sep/17/rob-delaney-twitter-standup-interview",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}