{
  "content": "Online comments are getting a bad press of late. After a small number of prison sentences have been doled out to online trolls, most recently to a tweeter who posted racist abuse in the wake of Fabrice Muamba's on-pitch cardiac arrest, a swath of articles tackling online comments have followed. Consider it the revenge of the jobbing journalist. Most professional writers today began in an environment where feedback from readers was limited solely to the occasional letter or phone call. Journalists are generally a little bit \"luvvy\" in each other's company, preferring not to be too direct in their criticism of their colleagues' writing. Instant, direct criticism appearing below a piece comes as a shock after such a background, and lots of journalists don't like it. The latest shot at commenters comes from Helen Lewis in the New Statesman. A few key extracts from her article are below. \"Every so often, a writer puts their head above the parapet to say that, actually, they don't really enjoy every facet of their life, career and appearance being raked over directly underneath an article they've spent time crafting. Or that they feel slightly miffed that a drive-by \"YOUR SHIT\" or \"FIRSSSST\" gets almost equal prominence with their original work \u2026\" \"I think at this point it's safe to say there are two types of writer: those who worry about their comments, and those who don't read them \u2026\" \"In the wake of stories about \"internet trolls\" targeting Louise Mensch, Noel Edmonds and Fabrice Muamba, there has been a great deal of agonising over why the people involved don't know what they're doing is wrong. There's a glaringly simple answer: they look around, see an internet reduced to a Giant Lavatory Wall, and decide to get in on the act themselves.\" The debate over \"trolling\", a very small and specific subset of online communities who write provocative and offensive posts specifically to elicit reaction, has spilled over into a general sideswipe against comments. It's one that's misplaced. The purpose of writing on blogs, community sites like Comment is free, and much of social media is to start or further a conversation \u2013 not to share a few writerly pearls of wisdom. The great majority of writers on this site (and the New Statesman, for that matter) are paid. It's a job. Too much of the conversation about comment threads is about how writers \u2013 people paid to serve an audience \u2013 feel. Much of the discussion, in Lewis's piece and elsewhere, is based on a view of comments stuck in about 2003. Not only are many comment threads phenomenal reads in themselves \u2013 try this one on opening up academic writing, with responses from scientists, journal editors, and more \u2013 they can also provoke and become material for news stories, features and explainers. This piece is one of those. Yesterday's \"You Tell Us\" thread covered this topic; Unexceptional asked for a piece responding to Lewis (here it is!), while Translated made some excellent points about what a site like Comment is free is for \u2013 points I adopted in this article, two paragraphs up from here. Lewis complains we wouldn't expect a friend to scrawl \"Did you get paid for this?\" on a gift. We probably wouldn't, but we would expect feedback on our present: a disappointed \"oh\" would convey very much the same impression, but within different social norms. The journalistic equivalent comes from editors. Editors have since time immemorial told their journalists when a story is rubbish, if the writing is bad, or if an intro is self-indulgent. When doing this, they're acting as a proxy for the readers, trying to improve the piece for their benefit. Now comments are often open on news pieces, readers get the chance to do that directly: if five early commenters have misunderstood something in a news story I've written, chances are that's my fault and not theirs. Lewis is a witty and engaging writer, but is on occasion known to be wrong. It seems only fair New Statesman readers have the chance to show her when they disagree, in a way that's respected rather than derided. Her dispiriting conclusion as it stands is that commenters make up only about 1% of any site's population, and are probably more trouble than they're worth (she cites the Guardian's investment in community co-ordinators and moderators as an example of misplaced spending). This misses a key fact: the most engaged 1% of the audience on any given site accounts for a huge amount of its traffic (it can be as high as a quarter), and is also the core audience for advertisers, rather than drive-by users who'll visit a site once. Deepening relationships with these users is key to any website's survival. Are comment threads a utopia? Of course not. Lots of comments are uninformative, uninteresting, or just plain rude (as are not a few above-the-line pieces across the web). We all have bugbears we'd like to crack down on (mine would be comments pointing out my byline photo makes me look prepubescent). The alternative, a world where writers like Lewis give forth from elevated platforms, and presumably close their eyes while using Twitter to avoid being sullied by uninformed froth, is a fairly sad and ridiculous one. Thankfully, it's not one that seems to exist. Lewis is a pretty decent tweeter, with more than 9,000 followers. And she had the good sense to leave comments open on her own piece. So far there are 53. Some are pretty good \u2013 and I suspect she's read them. \u2022 Here are a selection of reader comments from the discussion below: whitesteps says: \"I dont know of many posters that actively adjust their opinion\" I'd like to think I have. Being active on here has definitely made me more left-wing - occasionally bashing heads with some of more callous extreme right-wingers that frequent CiF (presumably out of masochism?), it always reaffirms how important it is that I stay working with activism, protests, and constantly writing to my MP and the Lords. POLIS says: Great post James. I think we have unreal expectations of comments threads. They are probably over moderated in general. They are not supposed to be well-crafted and balanced - that's the job of the article! I think that journalists still haven't got the point of public engagement. They still see social media as a place where people should listen to the professionals and they still see comment as something that should validate their own work. At a time when our business is going down the pan we should be grateful that people are taking any notice at all. By the way - we have published a research report looking at the moderation of online news websites - you can download it here: http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/polis/2012/01/19/is-comment-free-new-polis-research-report-on-the-moderation-of-online-news/ Cheers, Charlie showmaster says: John Harris and Zoe Williams make a point of regular interaction BTL and theirs is the future of journalism, an informed if biased article making specific points which may then be discussed. So what if there is a certain amount of crap or hatred BTL, that is what moderation is for, to moderate language and extremist opinion so that it does not have the platform. Comment BTL rarely alters my viewpoint but I have learned an enormous amount from commenters links and their willingness to share their experience and knowledge. Regular CIFers get to know the ranters and the political stance of other regulars and a kind of shorthand is generated, the cartoonistas is a good example and much of the contrariness there is between known opposing viewpoints. It is bound to get \"pesonal\" when regular adversaries swap words, that is just normal human interaction and can be good fun or a terrible bore. Whatever the thoughts and feelings of commeters and writers it has to be acceted that journalism is changing irrevocably and everyone had better get used to it, moaning about comment in a digital age is an anachronism. It is possible that the bursting of the bubble within which journos and politicians have lived so compfortably will upset them but, so what, tough! whitesteps says: CiF really should post clear guidelines to spotting trolls so that the 'troll' abuse flag isn't misused; there are simple steps that can be taken: - Do you recognise the user name? If you do, odds are they aren't a troll - you just don't agree with them. - If you don't recognise the user name, check their comment history - did they only join today? If so, it is very possible they are a troll. - Check their comments across different threads; have they taken, in all threads, a position likely to be considered controversial - if so, troll is becoming likely. - Finally, look for inconsistencies in their stated views/locales - a while back, I spotted an obvious troll because he was simultaneously posting on an article about the UK &amp; US, and claiming to be living in both countries. Follow these simple rules, and hopefully we can restrict the word troll to actual trolls. DCharlie says: I like reading other peoples comments online, they tend to make me feel much better about myself.",
  "title": "In defence of online comments | James Ball",
  "lead": "James Ball: You told us: The internet would be a dull place without readers being able to challenge writers \u2013 and journalism would be impoverished",
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/citizenmedia",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/blogging",
    "media/media",
    "media/new-statesman"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2012/apr/13/in-defence-of-online-comments",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}