{
  "content": "Hacking attacks are on the increase in the UK and concerns are mounting that the country's leading organisations are not fully prepared to cope with the problem. A report published last week claimed that a third of the UK's major companies and public sector organisations had been hacked into by cyber-terrorists. Speaking in the Commons, the foreign secretary, Robin Cook, said: \"Computers now manage most of our critical national infrastructure but with these new opportunities there also comes the risk of new threats. A computer-based attack could cripple the nation more quickly than a military strike.\" The latest government site to be hacked into was the treasury-run single currency site, www.euro.gov.uk which was plastered with criticisms of the Queen. A gang of hackers calling themselves Prime Suspectz claimed responsibility for the break-in. But it is not just government sites being singled out for attack. Last month Burger King's UK website was hacked and defaced by a group calling themselves Dreamscape. The hackers replaced the Burger King homepage with a mock-up of McDonald's UK website and advised visitors to go to the rival burger chain instead. And in February other major sites, including ones owned by Compaq and AltaVista, were also the victims of hacking attacks. The government's national infrastructure security coordination centre is charged with the task of reacting to and raising awareness of electronic attacks across the public and private sectors. However, it has already been severely criticised for the slowness of its response to viruses such as the love bug last summer. Iain Franklin, the vice president of Entercept Security Technologies Europe, claims that hackers are currently gaining the upper hand, and points to the sharp increase in the number of website defacements reported over the past six to nine months. He believes the implications for e-commerce sites are extremely serious as an attack could lead to a loss of online consumer confidence. But while he agrees that it is theoretically possible that vital supplies such as water and power could be affected by hacking, he believes it is unlikely because hackers tend not to work in a coordinated way. \"I think the hackers are now well ahead in terms of education and knowledge,\" he says. \"People do not understand how bad the problem is. It is very much a new field and it has suddenly grown in the last nine months. Some 80% of hackers do it for kicks. They do it because it's a challenge. About 20% are very focused and are out for some financial gain.\" Franklin says that once a hacker has defaced a website they usually report it to a monitoring site such as Attrition ( www. attrition.org ) so they can boast about their hacking prowess to their friends. Franklin argues that a lot of current website security is out of date. \"Most people deploy firewalls as protection but they are archaic. You have to have some form of dedicated web server protection, something that sits on the server and can watch for malicious activity and identify it before it gets started.\" Many leading consumer brands such as Nike are acutely aware of the threats of hacking and negative online campaigning. Stefan Olander, brand communications director for Nike in Europe, says the company takes the hosting of content on the internet very seriously. \"It is very hard to get through. But having said that it is not impossible. There isn't a stereotypical hacker. They all have different reasons. Some of them might do it just to show off.\" Nike has been heavily criticised on the internet over allegations about the way it treats employees overseas. \"It is really very hard to say what impact it has had on the overall brand. It would be impossible to monitor every discussion that goes on about Nike,\" Olander explains. \"We are not proactively trying to hinder discussions about our brand online. That would be impossible. What we can do is give our point of view.\" Andrew Coker, the head of communications for Coke in the UK, is unaware of any interference with the company's sites. However with the proliferation in media channels, he says, \"you have to be far more aware of the things that are said about your company. The internet does present new challenges. One of the challenges is keeping up to date with everything that is going on.\" Many e-business directors point out that it is impossible to remove all risks of interference when you are linked up to the web. Chris Hogg, Intel's UK e-business manager, explains: \"In all business scenarios, you make a trade-off between levels of security and the ability to carry out business.\" Hogg says that if e-businesses become too obsessed with security then they might not be as easy to access and trade with and that in itself can be bad for e-commerce. He does not believe that a web defacement incident is a serious problem for a company in the long term. \"Typically the site gets taken down as soon as someone notices it. I believe a more serious thing is people entering your systems and removing confidential information.\" Nevertheless, he believes there are no grounds for UK organisations to play down reports of increases in hacking. \"You have to get your sys tems up to date. If you are not updating virus detectors and security infrastructure then typically that organisation will be the first to be penetrated. People are more and more dependent on computer systems and no one can afford to get complacent about the threats.\" The threats of hacking can often be talked up by the web security firms with a commercial stake in the existence of such risks. But no one doubts that the basic move to outward-facing computer networks, ushered in by the internet, does create many new opportunities for unauthorised entrance.",
  "title": "Coded warning",
  "lead": "Attacks on government and corporate websites are on the increase, and it looks like the hackers are winning, writes  Justin Hunt",
  "tags": [
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/cybercrime",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/data-computer-security"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2001/apr/19/hacking.security",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}