{
  "content": "Astronaut Buzz Aldrin, the second person to walk on the moon, responded to questions posed on Reddit's Ask Me Anything (AMA) feature on Tuesday. He was on the site to promote the 45th anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing, which is on 20 July, and a social media campaign connected to the event. Read the full discussion here. He thinks that the first people who visit Mars shouldn't come back \"I have considered whether a landing on Mars could be done by the private sector. It conflicts with my very strong idea, concept, conviction, that the first human beings to land on Mars should not come back to Earth. They should be the beginning of a build-up of a colony / settlement, I call it a 'permanence'. \"A settlement you can visit once or twice, come back, and then decide you want to settle. Same with a colony. But you want it to be permanent from the get-go, from the very first. I know that many people don't feel that that should be done. Some people even consider it distinctly a suicide mission. Not me! Not at all. Because we will plan, we will construct from the moon of Mars, over a period of six to seven years, the landing of different objects at the landing site that will be brought together to form a complete Mars habitat and laboratory, similar to what has been done at the moon. \"Tourism trips to Mars and back are just not the appropriate way for human beings from Earth \u2013 to have an individual company, no matter how smart, send people to mars and bring them back, it is very very expensive. It delays the obtaining of permanence, internationally.\" He had a pleasant time yelling at the moon with Tina Fey on 30 Rock \"My father, in 1925, 1926, in the Reserve of the Air Corps, worked as Aviation Fuel Manager for Standard Oil of New Jersey, that's where I lived at that time, and he would go into NYC and work at 30 Rockefeller Plaza. So when I was asked to consider participating, I jumped for joy, and I can't remember a more pleasant episode of discussions with Tina Fey as we talked about her fictitious mother's (I think it was) love affair that she had with me, Buzz Aldrin. And then we looked at the moon, and we both sort of cursed at it for various reasons and said \u2013 I'll never forget the line \u2013 'I walked on your FACE!'\" He had a really great time on the moon \"My first words of my impression of being on the surface of the moon that just came to my mind was 'magnificent desolation'. The magnificence of human beings, humanity, Planet Earth, maturing the technologies, imagination and courage to expand our capabilities beyond the next ocean, to dream about being on the moon, and then taking advantage of increases in technology and carrying out that dream \u2013 achieving that is magnificent testimony to humanity. But it is also desolate \u2013 there is no place on earth as desolate as what I was viewing in those first moments on the lunar surface. \"Because I realized what I was looking at, towards the horizon and in every direction, had not changed in hundreds, thousands of years. Beyond me I could see the moon curving away \u2013 no atmosphere, black sky. Cold. Colder than anyone could experience on Earth when the sun is up \u2013 but when the sun is up for 14 days, it gets very, very hot. No sign of life whatsoever. \"That is desolate. More desolate than any place on Earth.\" He is impressed by the movie Gravity \"I thought that the movie Gravity, the depiction of people moving around in zero gravity, was really the best I have seen. The free-falling, the actions that took place between two people, were very, I think, exaggerated, but probably bent the laws of physics. \"But to a person who's been in space, we would cringe looking at something that we hoped would never, ever happen. It's very thrilling for the person who's never been there, because it portrays the hazards, the dangers that could come about if things begin to go wrong, and I think that as I came out of that movie, I said to myself and others, 'Sandra Bullock deserves an Oscar.'\" He doesn't take people who think he faked the moon landing seriously \"I personally don't waste very much of my time on what is so obvious to a really thinking person, of all the evidence \u2013 we talked about Carl Sagan recently, who made a very prophetic observation. He said that \"extraordinary observations require extraordinary evidence to make them believable.\" There is not extraordinary evidence of (as far as I know) all the claims that have been made that we did not go to the moon.\"",
  "title": "Buzz Aldrin's AMA: colonising Mars and the moon's 'magnificent desolation'",
  "lead": "Second person to walk on the moon and lunar module pilot for Apollo 11, the astronaut talks about space, Gravity and Tina Fey",
  "tags": [
    "science/apollo-11-moon-landing",
    "technology/reddit",
    "science/space",
    "science/moon",
    "science/nasa",
    "science/science",
    "us-news/us-news"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "science/2014/jul/08/buzz-aldrin-ama-mars-colony-moon-landing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}