{
  "content": "Television Lorraine Heggessey, founder of Boom Pictures and an independent adviser to the Channel 4 Growth Fund There's never been a better time to be in the content business. Some of the leading production companies have moved under US ownership. Now eyes will be on the likes of BT which has the funds to build a major British-owned production company \u2013 but does it have the appetite? I expect plans to commercialise the BBC's production arm will cause greater controversy in 2015. If director general Tony Hall has his way, the corporation's producers will be allowed to pitch to rival broadcasters. The devil will be in the detail, but one logical conclusion would be no more quota protecting in-house production, a move independents will welcome. With Liberty Global and Discovery snapping up All3Media, broadcasters and platform operators realise it makes strategic sense to move into content so I expect to see more acquisitions in this space in 2015. The era of the mega-indie is just beginning. Super-indies have gobbled up most of the mid-sized production companies, with those left expected to command a premium. Now they need to start merging with each other. First off the blocks is the Endemol/Shine/Core merger backed by 21st Century Fox and Apollo Global Management. There will undoubtedly be a bit of a shakedown in 2015 as the new owners push for synergies to drive the bottom line. Several creatives feel this new complex world of ownership was not what they signed up for, so there's a new wave of small indies starting up. They will need nurturing and crucially must continue to benefit from the terms of trade that allow them to own rights, giving them some financial security. Expect more investments in 2015 from Channel 4, which has set up a growth fund to help support emerging indies who want to retain their independence. Newspapers Douglas McCabe, media analyst, Enders Analysis A couple of trends will continue that have been going on for some time. The most obvious thing is the demand for physical newspapers. The second is the rate of growth in digital may slow down and plateau. Video has been one of the themes in 2014. I don't really believe consumers come intuitively to newspaper websites to watch video. Newspapers have large newsrooms so it seems illogical not to think they can't talk to camera. At some level the industry needs to acknowledge the gap \u2013 can they get closer to having the best of both worlds, getting the reputation they have in the written word in video. It needs to be thought through tactically and quite carefully. Maybe they've been doing the wrong genres or channels. The biggest challenge goes back to the scale of newspapers. How much income is actually coming in and what kind of scale of newsroom can the publisher afford to run? Five to ten years from now will we have the same number of large operations in play? If the answer is no, then what should individual publishers be doing to navigate the best possible outcome? Should they be narrowing down their remit? I think the print medium is here to stay but not in the volumes of the past. We sell 7m national newspapers a day in the UK, plus 3m local, so that's 10m in total. But I do think in the longer term some newspaper brands face not publishing every day but having weekly editions. Digital video Josh Cohen, founder, Tubefilter In the multi-channel network space we're going to see a lot more specialisation. We're seeing it already. When these companies first appeared in 2009 to 2011, they were trying to aggregate as many channels and views as possible, to attract advertisers. As the space gets more sophisticated, we're going to see much more specialisation: these burgeoning new media stars may have their channel management on YouTube, then they might have traditional talent management, maybe also a Hollywood agent or a literary agent, then they might work on licensing and branding deals with a totally different team. A few months ago, everyone thought they had the online video space figured out, but now Vessel and Facebook video are coming along to shake up the industry again. I don't think YouTube is going to relinquish its dominant position any time in the near future, but creators now have more choices of avenues through which they're going to be able to build an audience. There's no better time than now to be a big YouTube star: in 2015, the mainstream media will continue to recognise that these individuals have massive audiences, and the potential to move and activate those massive audiences. Someone like Grace Helbig is going to have her own late-night talk show on [TV channel] E! next year. We're also going to see more of these stars make feature films then sell them online. Camp Takota with Grace, Hannah Hart and Mamrie Hart sold hundreds of thousands of copies online through iTunes and other stores, and Vine star Cameron Dallas has just released a movie called Expelled which was number one on iTunes, beating off Guardians of the Galaxy for a couple of days. Radio Matt Deegan, founder and creative director of the new media and radio consultancy firm Folder Media After a somewhat vacillating approach to digital radio, the main commercial radio groups have been gradually moving their chess pieces to make 2015 highly competitive. Global Radio has strongly rolled out Capital, Heart and Smooth on FM and local DAB while Bauer is rejigging its local stations. Nationally Bauer has consolidated its digital capacity with nationwide coverage for Absolute, Absolute 80s, Kiss, Planet Rock and from 2015 Magic. Global is fighting the Michael Buble onslaught with \u2013 the probably to be re-named \u2013 Smooth Extra, Heart Extra and a mystery launch joining Classic FM, Capital Xtra and LBC. The question is whether these launches will cannibalise commercial radio further or start to take more of a fight to the BBC, which has been consolidating its own success with 6Music, 1Xtra and 4 Extra. It's not all about the big boys, a raft of local DAB launches in 2014 means smaller stations like Minster FM are signficantly growing their coverage and launching their own spin-off stations. Can any take on the big boys? Listening to radio through the television will continue to plateau, while internet radio will continue its solid, though unremarkable, growth. With Ofcom consulting on whether to remove the music specifics of stations' formats, will we see an analogue radio free-for-all like in the US? And will the fractious relationships between the radio groups have any chance of healing? Based on the current rows around the Radio Academy and the Radio Academy Awards \u2013 probably not. Magazines David Hepworth, editorial director of Development Hell Lots of magazine companies will be working away doing things that don't look like magazine work. They'll be selling the big audiences for their websites programmatically with less emphasis on the latest issue and more on the nature of the audience. They'll be employing boffins to unlock the value of the readers they've already got rather than employing editorial people charged with attracting new readers. The focus will be on people rather than product. Magazines will be fishing where the fish are, developing profitable events and money-making YouTube channels rather than hoping that new consumers are going to skip into WH Smith, which is now the most depressing retail environment in the world. Nobody will be making any big claims for tablet magazines because they have discovered that they cost a lot of money to produce, advertisers are reluctant to pay for them and readers forget about them. It will be interesting to see whether Tatler gets a bounce from BBC2's Posh People, which reflects some of the fun of magazines. You have to keep reminding people of what they like about magazines. Advertising David Hallerman, principal analyst, eMarketer Digital video advertising is growing faster than any other form of digital advertising, but at the same time \u2013 in the US at least \u2013 TV is still getting more new dollars per year than all of digital video. The meaning of that is the continued importance of TV, with digital video often a supplement for it in terms of advertising. Moving forward, the two are getting more integrated for marketers, even though the technology isn't quite there yet to track audiences across all screens. That's the holy grail. Finding a way to advertise off TV-style content on whatever screen it appears on is the major trend for advertising in this space. While some advertisers are shifting TV money to digital video, print is still losing a lot of money, so there's money moving from there, and online there is money moving from banners to digital video, because banners are increasingly commoditised. More and more, advertisers can get the same amount of banner impressions for less money, so that gives them money to shift towards digital video. One caveat when looking at spending numbers for digital video is there's a lot of video marketing that doesn't come under the category of advertising. More companies are doing content marketing, making their own content and placing it on YouTube, but that does not appear in the ad figures because it's not a traditional media buy. I often get asked if Facebook's video business will take away from YouTube. But people go to Facebook for many reasons, not just to watch video. People go to YouTube to watch video, and that's part of its strength. \u2022 This article was amended on 7 January 2015. An earlier version stated incorrectly that Lorraine Heggessey was the founder of Twofour Group.",
  "title": "From YouTube to Facebook \u2013 will video be the one to watch in 2015?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/youtube",
    "technology/facebook",
    "media/bbc",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/commercial-radio",
    "media/media",
    "media/radio",
    "media/advertising",
    "media/television",
    "media/independent-production-companies",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "It may be the era of the television mega-indie, commercial radio is ready for a BBC showdown \u2013 but print is still being pressed, say our experts",
  "id": "media/2015/jan/04/youtube-facebook-video-year-ahead",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}