{
  "content": "How time flies. It's three years since I reported in the Guardian that, in the quest for \"transformed\", IT-based government, ministers were planning to overturn a basic principle of data protection . My report followed a briefing from a cabinet office official who told me it had been decided that sharing personal data was fine unless it had been explicitly prevented. This policy, couched in more cautious language than my report, featured in a \"vision statement\" in September 2006. My article mentioned that the new policy had emerged from a cabinet committee called Misc 31. That reference intrigued at least one reader. In April 2007, David Bowden, a solicitor who operates under the name Lobby and Law, put in a request for six sets of information concerning Misc 31, including minutes since the committee was formed. Bowden must have realised he was pushing his luck \u2013 ministerial communications enjoy an infamous exemption from the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). However, he argued that exemptions are not mandatory and that there was a strong public interest in the issue. The information commissioner's office wasn't impressed. Turning down the initial request, it ruled that although there was a public interest in greater accountability, the conventions of cabinet government came first. \"Great weight\" was attached to the protection of collective responsibility, the polite fiction that all ministers agree with every government line. Revelations of ministerial exchanges, as well as \"any differences of opinion\" would put that in peril. Bowden took his case to the information tribunal. He claimed 25 grounds of appeal, including, provocatively, that Misc 31's work looked like an attempt to cook up, behind closed doors, a data regime contravening European laws. This, he claimed, amounted to a prima facie case of wrongdoing \u2013 in which case the FOIA would support disclosure. The cabinet office didn't like that one bit. At the appeal tribunal, it fielded evidence from a senior mandarin, Dr Robin Fellgett. He dismissed the wrongdoing claim, saying the work of Misc 31 \"proceeded on an understanding that any data-sharing had to be in accordance with the Data Protection Act\". Fellgett said ministers would be reluctant to put forward dissenting views if they knew they were to be made public. The tribunal agreed, ruling that the type of information Bowden wanted represented a classic illustration of the \"safe space\" needed for making government policy. As you'll have guessed by now, the appeal was turned down. So, there we have it. Misc 31 was wound up in 2007, when Gordon Brown became prime minister, and has not been directly replaced. It looks as though we will have to wait until 2037 to find out what was discussed. Is this the end of the matter? I don't think so. The tribunal's report includes the extraordinary statement that there was no compelling public interest in disclosing Misc 31 papers because \"there is no doubt in the tribunal's view that the public was sufficiently well informed not only about the fact of Misc 31's existence, but also of its aims and functions\". Flatteringly, one reason for this assertion was my 2006 Guardian report; the tribunal also cited the 2005 Transformational Government strategy itself. This is not good enough. The debate about information sharing by public bodies should concern a lot more people than readers of government papers, or even the Guardian. Ministers are always calling for a mature public debate on the topic. As the information tribunal reminds us, the conventions of cabinet government mean that a cabinet committee is not the right place to hold such a public debate. So, where is? \u2022 This article was amended on 3 September 2009. The original headline referred to Misc 13. This has been corrected.",
  "title": "The fight to shine light on the shadowy Misc 31 | Michael Cross",
  "lead": "Michael Cross: Why the debate about information sharing should concern more people than readers of government papers",
  "tags": [
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/politics",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2009/sep/02/data-protection-policy-debate",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}