{
  "content": "LinkedIn finally introduced applications for the site today, announcing a suitably targeted and business focused range of apps that users can select to add to their profiles. There are some obvious candidates on there, like an Amazon books reading list, blog posts from Wordpress and Six Apart, presentations on Google and Slideshare and the Box.net file sharing tool. The best news for the UK, however, is the inclusion of collaborative working tool Huddle.net - the only non-US app to be picked for the launch and a direct result of Huddle's trip to the US in April as part of Web Mission , which took a handful of UK startups to the US for mentoring and business support. More on Huddle in our Elevator Pitch this time last year. LinkedIn now claims 30 million members, though that is the number of people that have ever registered with the site rather than unique users. Kevin Eyres, Europe managing director at LinkedIn, said the aim is to provide useful tools that will encourage people to engage more with the site and with other members, but that apps would always be strictly targeted to those relevant to business. \"We haven't opened the doors to everybody. Other sites have 10,000 apps but that's not us. We want focus, and we want to add value for users,\" he said. \"Amazon's app, for example - I read many great business books and have friends that are heavy readers, so it is good to share recommendations with them.\" Tracking companies on Twitter The value of these apps is very much about context - about the specialist business focus of the site and also about the volume of people registered. Though it has started with just ten apps, more will follow. All these apps are built using Open Social, Google's set of APIs for social networking features. Company Buzz, said Eyres, is expected to be particularly popular with users able to set up the app to monitor their name or company, or rival firms, on Twitter. Eyres said the site has not seen advertising slow down, and that new registrations have increased to one per second. In the Q&amp;A feature on the site, 600 discussion questions are asked per day and 3,000 answers served up by users. The Institute of Directors asked LinkedIn recently to set up an official IOD network on LinkedIn to replace a handful of unofficial but clearly in-demand forums. Some apps have a revenue share deal with LinkedIn but most have no commercial relationship and all are free, for basic use, to the user. LinkedIn is on a rather smug high right now, combating the recession with a three-pronged defence of being less reliant on advertising than other social nets, being nestled among the most lucrative niche demographic and being a social networking site with a purpose that chimes rather well with economic upheaval - finding work. Also included are a travel tool by Tripit (Dopplr didn't get a look-in this time) and two apps developed by LinkedIn itself in the form of a company buzz tracker that scans Twitter for company names and keywords, and a polling tool for market research. Huddle expects a spike in user numbers Huddle co-founder Andy McLoughlin summed it up by saying this move is not about poking your contacts or throwing sheep but about features that are genuinely useful. \"For LinkedIn the recession could actually be good. People are looking for jobs, where LinkedIn is an established way to do that, but services like Huddle can help business work better and cheaper than traditional systems. If you might save 15 minutes not hunting for email or the document you need.\" McLoughlin said Huddle is still based on a freemium model where users have a basic service for free and can upgrade for a subscription fee, but the service is planning to introduce an additional revenue through advertising by the end of the year. The app on LinkedIn already features advertising. I asked if Huddle was being encouraged to cut costs; quite the opposite, said McLoughlin. \"We're being encouraged to grow by our investors, we've signed great deals with Centrica and Berr, our numbers are good and we're actually hiring now,\" he said.",
  "title": "LinkedIn introduces apps from Google, Amazon and Huddle",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/startups",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/linkedin"
  ],
  "lead": "LinkedIn finally introduced applications for the site today, announcing a suitably targeted and business focused range of apps that users can select to add to their profiles. There are some obvious candidates on there, like an Amazon books reading list, blog posts from Wordpress and Six Apart, presentations on Google and Slideshare and the Box.net file sharing tool - but the best news is the inclusion of collaborative working tool Huddle.net",
  "id": "media/pda/2008/oct/29/socialnetworking-internet",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}