{
  "content": "The Metropolitan police have issued photographs of 12 people they want to question in relation to what they have described as a \"concerted violent attack\" on officers during a protest in Parliament Square. The force said the incident occurred during the demonstration in London on 5 November, which took place under the banner of the Million Mask March, promoted by the loosely organised internet activist group Anonymous. It stressed that the majority of marchers were peaceful but there were pockets of unrest, with fireworks and traffic furniture, including barriers, being thrown at officers. Detective Chief Inspector Andy Barnes, from the Met's public order command, said: \"This was a concerted violent attack on officers by a minority who were determined to commit crime and had no interest in peaceful protest. This type of behaviour will not be tolerated and we will make every effort to trace these individuals and hold them accountable for their actions. I would appeal for help from the public in identifying these individuals so they can be brought to justice.\" The march, which began at 6pm and ended at midnight, was one of the largest of several inspired by Anonymous that were taking place around the world that day. Many people wore the Guy Fawkes masks which have become a symbol of the hacktivist group. The London protest, which Anonymous said was attended by around 3,000 people, spread from Parliament Square to Marylebone. It attracted a range of participants, including supporters of anti-capitalist, anti-war and pro-Palestinian movements. The comedian Russell Brand was among the marchers. Ten people were arrested on the day for offences including assault on police, obstruction offences, attempted grievous bodily harm, and public order offences. The violence in Parliament Square took place between 7pm and 8pm. Anonymous said there were Million Mask Marches in 481 locations this year and has claimed it is the largest global protest. Cities where protests took place included Washington DC, Vancouver, Tel Aviv, Dublin, Paris, Chicago, Sydney and Kabul. Anyone who recognises the individuals pictured is asked to call the public order command on 020 8246 0076 or email them at IDsought@met.police.uk quoting the reference on the picture. Anyone wishing to remain anonymous can call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.",
  "title": "Police release photos of protesters over Million Mask March attack",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/metropolitan-police",
    "uk/london",
    "uk/police",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/protest",
    "technology/anonymous",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "London force says it is seeking 12 people in relation to unrest in which fireworks and road barriers were thrown at officers",
  "id": "uk-news/2014/nov/18/police-photos-protesters-million-mask-march-attack",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}