{
  "content": "On 27 January 2007, the day Andy Coulson resigned as editor of the News of the World, his royal correspondent, Clive Goodman, and private investigator, Glenn Mulcaire, had been sent to jail for the crime of hacking into the voicemails of three members of the Clarence House staff. Mulcaire, who had engineered the process, also pleaded guilty to five further charges of intercepting voicemail messages left for Max Clifford, Skylet Andrew, Simon Hughes, Elle Macpherson and Gordon Taylor. At least one of these victims, Gordon Taylor, chose to pursue the News of the World for compensation for the invasion of his privacy. Now the paper is reported to have settled claims for over \u00a31m. That at least offers a little hope amidst the plethora of Nick Davies's more extensive and gloomier revelations in Thursday's Guardian. There has also been an orgy of speculation over the involvement of Coulson \u2013 who is David Cameron's chief spinner \u2013 although it is clear to most that no tangible trail will ever emerge about his knowledge of what was going on. Mulcaire was paid a weekly retainer of \u00a3500 in cash for seeking royal stories from the Clarence House voicemails. Because of that, despite Mulcaire's \u00a32,000-a-week contract with News International, once he got caught, which he inevitably would be, management said they didn't know about Goodman's arrangement with him. That then managing editor Kuttner signed a chit for \u00a3500 cash every week for Goodman, without ever asking what it was for, seems at best unlikely, at worst, utterly unbelievable, as does Coulson's ignorance of what was going on. After the event, the Culture Media and Sport committee held an inquiry into the affair, but they didn't invite Coulson \u2013 because, they said, he was no longer in charge, having already resigned. The most obvious, if cynical explanation for this could simply be fear of Murdoch and fear of reprisal from News International's powerful stable of titles, which makes up nearly 40% of the British national newspaper market. Now CMS committee chairman John Whittingdale has announced that he will reopen their inquiry, and Coulson is very likely to be called this time \u2013 at last a show of teeth, to make up for the soft wet gums of the Press Complaints Commission, who were also too coy to call Coulson to their own inquiry, \"because he had left the industry\". It seems unlikely that Coulson will ever be charged in connection with the illegal phone-hacking carried out by his staff, but it's unlikely too that he can stay in Cameron's office, or, as some were predicting, return to Wapping in triumph to edit the Sun, now that Rebekah Wade is going to join James Murdoch at the helm of News International.",
  "title": "The long shadow of the NoW newsroom | Peter Burden",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/rupert-murdoch",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "law/law",
    "lifeandstyle/celebrity",
    "media/privacy",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Peter Burden: Former editor Andy Coulson faces a grilling on phone hacking from the culture committee. Can his career survive the fallout?",
  "id": "commentisfree/2009/jul/10/phone-hacking-andy-coulson",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}