{
  "content": "A legal row has broken out between internet service provider Demon and the UK domain registrar Nominet over its controversial plans to publish the contact details of website owners. Thus, the owner of the Demon brand, believes Nominet's plans could fall foul of UK data protection laws And the company is seeking clarification on the legality of Nominet's proposals from the information commissioner, Elizabeth France. Nominet, the registry that oversees UK domain names, has proposed that it gives comprehensive contact details to anyone searching for the owner of a co.uk domain. At the moment searches for contact details only bring up basic information about who owns the domain. But the proposal - covering businesses or registrants that Nominet deems to be trading - has met with fierce opposition from critics who believe it is an attack on privacy. However, Nominet argues that its new proposals would bring the UK in line with other countries, including the US. It would, the registry claims, give the internet greater transparency by allowing users to identify who owns what site, thereby making website operators more accountable. But Thus believes Nominet's new system, the \"whois\" directory, could contravene data protection and privacy regulations that grant businesses and individuals the option to be ex-directory and have all or part of their addresses omitted. Nominet's proposals do not give an option for domain owners the option to opt out of the directory. \"The right to privacy is an important one - individuals have entirely legitimate reasons for wishing to remain anonymous,\" said Ian Hood, the director of communications &amp; regulation at Thus. \"For instance, we don't object to people's phone numbers being ex-directory. It is important that any changes to the way information is handled are carried out entirely in accordance with the existing legislation.\" Just as Companies House holds authoritative records for company names, or the DVLA for driving licences, Nominet maintains the database of .uk registered Internet names. Every organisation or individual connected to the internet is uniquely identified by a numerical address that is mapped onto a more memorable name. As a result, most countries have a central registry - such as Nominet UK - to store the domain names.",
  "title": "Demon in legal wrangle",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/internet"
  ],
  "lead": " A legal row has broken out over the UK domain registrar's plans to publish contact details of website owners, writes Julia Day",
  "id": "technology/2002/sep/24/news.newmedia",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}