{
  "content": "The Nursing and Midwifery Council has guidelines for interaction with patients via social media. Their code of conduct details the types of online behaviour that are inappropriate, and offers advice to nurses on how they should conduct themselves on social networking sites such as Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. However, currently there are no similar guidelines for social workers and people who work in the social care sector. The question of how social workers should conduct themselves online is one that Claudia Megele, founder of the Twitter feed @SWSCmedia, addressed in a recent comment piece on e-professionalism. She argues that social care professionals should think about their audience, and consider the difference between their public and private personas. Her jointly-run twitter account, which hosts regular Twitter chats, has been championed by social workers as a great resource in social care, demonstrating how online platforms can also be used in the sector as a way to share ideas and best practice. However, should social workers be named or anonymous on Twitter? What are the advantages and risks of blogging and tweeting as a social worker? Can online platforms play a role in accessing service-users and educating people? And where should those in the profession turn to for guidance in the use of social media? These are just some of the questions that we will be addressing in our live discussion. Join us from noon until 2pm on Friday 27 April, or pose your questions on Twitter at @GdnSocialCare or by posting them below ahead of the debate. Panel Tina Faulkner (@whocareswalsall) from Walsall council was involved in the concept and delivery of Who Cares? \u2013 a social media and online campaign that asked \"who cares about social care?\" She is lead press and PR officer for social care at the council. Ian Walker is service manager for safeguarding and family support (East) at Wakefield council. James Hedges (@James_R_Hedges) works as communications officer at the Care Quality Commission. Nushra Mansuri is a professional officer at the British Association of Social Work (BASW) England. Claudia Megele (@claudiamegele) is a senior lecturer and module leader for the MSc programme at Hertfordshire University. She is also the founder of @SWSCmedia, @MHchat, and recently wrote about e-professionalism in social care for the network. Jon Bolton (@jonbolton) is an experienced social work practitioner and manager who has worked in the not-for-profit, academic and statutory sectors for over 20 years. Now a consultant in social work, he is also an associate lecturer in social work at the University of Dundee. Steve Palmer is press and public affairs manager at the Social Care Institute for Excellence. Victoria Dixon (@vickydixon) is a second-year student studying a full-time social work degree at Bradford University. She has previously blogged for the network about using Twitter in social care. Nick Berbiers is a senior children and young persons interim manager and consultant who tweets regularly about social care. Manisha Mahen (@ManishaMahen) studies social work at Nottingham Trent University and is a Twitter ambassador for SWSCmedia. Mark Ivory is policy and communications manager at the College of Social Work. Martin Webber (@mgoat73) is a lecturer and researcher at the Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London. He is a registered social worker, leads the post-qualifying MSc advanced social work with children and adults programme and blogs at martinwebber.net. This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the social care network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.",
  "title": "Social care and social media: live discussion",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "social-care-network/social-care-network",
    "social-care-network/careers",
    "society/society",
    "media/social-media",
    "society/social-care",
    "society-professionals/society-professionals"
  ],
  "lead": "Join us from noon until 2pm Friday 27 April to discuss issues surrounding the use of social media in the social care sector",
  "id": "social-care-network/2012/apr/26/social-care-media-live-discussion",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}