{
  "content": "Michelle Gallen grew up in a small town in Northern Ireland long before the advent of the digital age. If you wanted to buy something, you had to get in a car and drive to a shop or a farm. Word of mouth was key and shops were staffed by people you knew, who kept all the information they had about you in their heads. If you visited a different town with different shops and shopkeepers, all that knowledge was lost. The savviest small businesses today do not lose valuable customer insights \u2013 they actively gather them using digital techniques, and those that ignore new technology do so at their peril. Digital has many definitions, but for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) it includes the following concepts: co-working, cloud computing, social media, online sales, search engine optimisation, the social graph, mobile technology, and the ability to attract talent from all over the world. Gallen, who is involved with two start-up businesses \u2013 Shhmooze and TalkIrish.com, which she launched to help protect the endangered Irish language \u2013 says the one thing that can save small business is digital. \"Digital offers many of the same opportunities big business enjoys: [companies] can capture data about customers, they can market offers to customers, they can use digital to help customers feel local even if they are transient, and they can encourage customers to be part of a community quickly and effectively \u2013 in hours, not years.\" Pernille Bruun-Jensen, managing director of Intuit, an accounting software developer, thinks the future is an exciting one: \"The world is changing. The majority of small businesses are online now, with 12% purely online and 58% having part of their business online.\" A big part of this is the onset of cloud computing \u2013 where users can store documents and access services online rather than using software on their own computers. A YouGov survey this year found that a third of small businesses are in the cloud, using one or more internet-based apps (not including email). \"Social media is exceptionally exciting and we take it so seriously because it's a simple, inexpensive way of meeting customers,\" Bruun-Jensen adds. She says that a poll Intuit conducted with Regus, the office rental group, recently indicated that 42% of SMEs win business using social media, and SMEs spend twice as much of their budget as large companies on social media. \"If you can get global reach through the internet or social media it can make up for shortfalls you face in a local community \u2013 it can save a business,\" she says. \"For us, digital is also about allowing our customers to talk among themselves. Our live community use it like a chatroom, with users helping other users out. They really connect.\" Bruun-Jensen adds that digital is also slowly destroying the idea of a single office workplace and a local workforce. \"You don't need an office any more. It could be Starbucks one day and the beach the next. There are whole generations of people who have their office in their mobile phone, which they can take anywhere. They can work normal hours or at night and weekends if they want.\" This view is echoed by Gallen, who says digital offers flexibility to bosses by allowing them to hire staff from anywhere: \"With Skype, Dropbox, cloud-based customer relationship management tools such as Salesforce and Nutshell, you can work with people on the other side of the world as if they were beside you. Our team at Shhmooze is spread all over England and Northern Ireland. There's nobody working in our office. In fact, we don't even have a real office.\" Small businesses can negotiate cheaper rates with staff or contractors who work from home instead of commuting to a single site every day, and who can themselves benefit from a more flexible way of working. Freelances and one-man bands are perhaps the biggest beneficiaries of the boom in co-working \u2013 when individual workers share office space. The ease and accessibility offered by cloud computing through wireless internet means that people do not have to run a tiny office out of their bedroom but can rent a desk cheaply, and share ideas with new colleagues in the same boat. Ellen de Vries is a freelance copywriter, based at The Skiff, a not-for-profit, co-working community with premises in the centre of Brighton, which launched in 2008. \"I physically used to go and work at clients' offices,\" she says, \"where there weren't as many opportunities to network online or share knowledge with groups. But now I work in an office where everyone's sharing, collaborating and running their own business. It's immensely valuable and a great community of ambitious people.\" The Skiff offers desks from \u00a325 a month (for two days), up to \u00a3165 for unlimited access, with perks including Wi-Fi, colour laser printer/scanner/copier, a digital projector, meeting rooms, office supplies \u2013 and table tennis. Crucially, The Skiff does not have phones, meaning that workers must use Skype or other VoIP (voice over internet protocol) technology. It has proved so popular it is currently at capacity and not taking on new members. \"These days the percentage of clients for smaller projects whom I've never met in person, or have only met once, is rising,\" de Vries says. \"This year we carried out a huge content and information writing project over three months with [the trade union] Unison, using six writers. The tools we used included Basecamp, Google spreadsheets, Skype, email and chat. It worked like clockwork.\" Perhaps one of the most effective ways in which digital is helping small business is in marketing. Social media is allowing businesses of all sizes to reach a global audience and to harness that audience to do their marketing and advertising for them. Jewellery designer Alyssa Smith has built a successful (and traditional) business using Twitter. She sent samples of her Tweetie necklace, inspired by the social media site's little bird logo, to celebrities using the website. Many were happy not only to wear Smith's jewellery \u2013 but to tweet about it. \"No one would have known about me if it wasn't for Twitter because I couldn't afford any advertising,\" she says. \"I didn't even have a website at the time. It was the celebrities who helped the business explode.\" Smith had a stroke of luck when the actress Sienna Miller wore the Tweetie, as did TV presenters Suzi Perry and Gail Porter. With the necklace appearing in magazines and tabloids after the stars were \"papped\" wearing it (\"You could see a bespoke necklace in a picture the Mirror published, showing Tulisa from The X Factor grabbing presenter Caroline Flack's boobs\") interest began to mount. \"It's all about name-dropping,\" Smith says. \"People would tweet celebrities and ask where they got their necklace from \u2013 Twitter makes people so approachable.\" Now, the success of Alyssa Smith Jewellery, which launched only a year ago, has enabled her to buy her own home, and her company has become part of the world that inspired it. \"All our customers chip in with ideas, so it's created by people on Twitter for people on Twitter,\" she says. \"Regular customers collect all my stuff and people are posting pictures of themselves wearing my jewellery on Twitter. There is now even a group calling themselves Alyssa Groupies, using their own #Alyssagroupies hashtag. Customers are talking to each other and forming relationships. Sometimes it feels like I'm living in a game.\" Social media has offered Smith not only the chance to collaborate with customers, but also to work on a professional level with other businesses. She has recently designed jewellery for Pink Lady apples, Sweet Eve strawberries and Alpro soya milk. Smith talked about her business at the recent MADE festival in Sheffield for entrepreneurs and business growth, where start-ups gathered to share ideas and knowledge. De Vries says small businesses are increasingly putting more emphasis and value on this kind of collaboration, rather than on competition, helped by digital developments. \"A while ago, when my main competitor was getting established, I gave him a lot of information about freelance copywriting processes and how to manage clients,\" she says. \"It was knowledge I gave away freely and I did wonder if I was being dumb. But we recently worked together to win a huge tender and it has paid off in a really big way. We can learn from our competitors and combine knowledge and efforts to build something even bigger than we are as individuals.\" Paul Lindley, founder and chief executive of the baby food company Ella's Kitchen, says communication has been crucial for the success of his consumer-driven brand. \"We put kids at the heart of everything we do,\" he says. \"To achieve this we need to ensure we have a continuous conversation with parents. There is a lot of activity that takes place directly with mums and dads off-line, but a key area is through the digital arena and specifically social media. Digital technologies and social media are integral to every campaign and communication we put out to parents.\" Despite the growing relevance of digital to SMEs, the Federation of Small Businesses is yet to commission research into the role digital is playing in its members' business lives \u2013 illustrating the stark divide between organisations that are part of the digital landscape and those that are rooted in more traditional methods. Many business owners remain wary of social media, convinced that they haven't got the time or it's silly. This is perhaps understandable \u2013 it can be relentless and businesses have to work hard to get the message right. Mistrust of social media also plays a part. If a company drops a corporate clanger, that mistake can now be amplified if it is taken up on Twitter and Facebook. The snack company Nature Valley was recently widely mocked online when it put out a full-page newspaper advert for its twin packs of granola bars, claiming that its aim was to \"increase deliciousness by 200%\". But social media protocol and best practice is easy to acquire and can lead to huge businesses gains \u2013 even single instances of good customer service can go viral, as was recently the case for Marks &amp; Spencer and, in the US, Morton's steak houses. So what does the future hold? Gallen says winners will be individuals and small businesses who can take mobile payments from phone to phone, face to face. \"So no more will I be standing in my local market with no cash, unable to make a purchase because the trader can't take cards. We won't need cards. We'll be paying by phone.\" This has great implications for people who sell casually, such as artists at small galleries or craftspeople at fairs. At the MADE festival, a panel of experts discussing the digital future were asked what the next big thing would be. The answers were varied, but included cloud computing, batteries and wireless power, information management, education and digital apprenticeships, mobile payments, improvements in the financial space (where banks are failing to communicate with and care for customers) and open source data. One panel member suggested the opportunity to invest in an island where internet-enabled devices didn't work. It brought a laugh from the audience, but no one in the room would have backed such a business. It's clearly not the future. Networking tips",
  "title": "Digital technology that helps start-ups grow",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "money/work-and-careers",
    "money/money",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media",
    "technology/cloud-computing",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/skype",
    "technology/mobilephones",
    "technology/seo",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/computing",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/small-business",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "lead": "Co-working, cloud computing and social media are changing the way small businesses work. Now they can be based anywhere and build a loyal client community in hours, not years",
  "id": "money/2011/oct/14/digital-technology-helps-startups-grow",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}