{
  "content": "Throwback Thursday, the weekly ritual of sharing old photos under the hashtag #TBT, has risen to the top of a neverending swirl of memes, jokes and long-forgotten hashtags internet users loves to create. This week, the @guardiannews Instagram will host a very special Throwback Thursday edition, featuring cringe-worthy (or just really old) moments from our followers' archives. Do you have pictures sitting in a shoebox somewhere that still make you scratch your head or blush with shame? Why not post them on the internet? Using the GuardianWitness form in this article, send us your awkward childhood pictures, family photos, old-school portraits, or anything that shows us your story of the good old days. We're looking for good stories. Tell us how old you were, where you were, or anything that will make for an interesting throwback tale. We'll feature the best (and maybe a few of the worst) on our Instagram account this Thursday for #tbt. (Tip: Since these photos will be going on Instagram, it's best if they're cropped into squares.) One quick ground rule: if you're going to submit a photo to the Guardian, make sure that you own it, and that anyone in the picture with you has given you permission to send it in. Please provide contact information when you submit so we can follow up with you and verify permissions. Need some inspiration? On Sunday, we introduced you to the found photography compiled by Erik Kessels, who collects the very strangest family snapshots. If you think your own relatives can top Kessels' subjects, now's the time to show the world.",
  "title": "The fine art of Throwback Thursday: send us your old-school photos",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/photography",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/instagram"
  ],
  "lead": "Dare to share? Send your pictures using GuardianWitness for a chance to be featured on the Guardian's Instagram account",
  "id": "theguardian/guardianwitness-blog/2014/apr/02/instagram-throwback-thursday-tbt-contest",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}