{
  "content": "What's going to happen to charity communications and marketing in the next 10 years? Given that \"Lord only knows\", though true, isn't terribly helpful, I've grouped my predictions into four key themes: recognition, integration, personalisation and innovation. Recognition Communications is still a relatively new function in the charity mix. It's only 20 years since charities started creating standalone communications departments, devolved from fundraising, and appointing their first communications directors. As a result, communications and marketing are still sometimes seen as the icing on the cake: the nice-to-have optional extra that tells people about the \"real\" work charities do \u2013 like project work, services or campaigning. The most successful charities already understand that communications is anything but peripheral, and this understanding will spread over the next decade. More and more charities will come to understand that when communications is made central to what an organisation is and does, they \u2013 and their mission \u2013 thrive. Communications will increasingly be recognised as a core way to increase engagement tangibly and measurably with supporters. In other words, comms will come to be seen not as how charities talk about the changes they make \u2013 but how they make change happen. Integration The often politically fraught relationship between communications and fundraising/policy/operations/campaigning will be replaced by a more integrated, audience-centred approach to communications (although this may require an evolutionary shift away from humanity's tendency to territorialism that's not feasible in the 10-year timescale\u2026). Charities will increasingly find that integrating their communications can help to deliver a range of aims simultaneously. Putting their audience rather than internal politics centre stage will result in communications that provide deeper engagement, greater coherence and improved efficiency. Personalisation Communications in general will get even more personal in the future \u2013 stakeholders will expect it. The importance of charities' brands will keep growing, although increasingly it will no longer be enough for a charity just to do good work. Charity brands will need to work harder to fit within the culture and interests of their audiences \u2013 to wedge themselves into their audience's lives. Consumers will want to support charities that enhance their own personal brand through personal and cultural relevance. Charities will need be prepared for their supporters/beneficiaries/service users to engage with them round the clock via different media, so communications will become even more about supplying the right information at the right time in the way people want it. Social media will continue to grow, with people expecting to be able to donate, discuss, engage, campaign, find information and access services through social channels. Innovation Looking ahead, one thing seems certain: everything within communications is liable to change, except the basic principles. Ten years ago \"social media\" meant sharing a newspaper article with mates in a pub (ah, simple times). Channels come and go with increasing rapidity, but the communications fundamentals of understanding your audience and telling a great story remain. Newness is inevitable: being innovative takes creative thinking. Communicators will be best placed to lead the innovation vanguard as long as its practitioners retain their unique blend of creativity, audience understanding and invaluable insight into the external environment. Vicky Browning is the director of CharityComms. For more updates and opinions on the challenges and opportunities facing the voluntary sector, join our network or follow us on Twitter @GdnVoluntary. If you have an idea or a suggestions don't hesitate to email us on voluntarysectornetwork@theguardian.com.",
  "title": "10 years' time: charity communications and marketing in 2024",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network",
    "voluntary-sector-network/voluntary-sector-network-blog",
    "voluntary-sector-network/communications",
    "voluntary-sector-network/10-years-time",
    "society/charities",
    "society/voluntarysector",
    "society/society",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/marketingandpr"
  ],
  "lead": "In 10 years' time charity communications and marketing will include recognition, integration, personalisation and innovation",
  "id": "voluntary-sector-network/2014/jan/31/10-years-time-charity-communications-2024",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}