{
  "content": "A coincidence or what? An hour ago, standing in Brompton cemetery, an Al-Jazeera English interviewer asked me what's to be done about Twitter breaking injunctions? During my reply I said that, at some stage, someone will inevitably sue Twitter and/or a tweeter. A week or so ago, in a BBC radio interview, I said that if tweeters can be sued for libel (as has happened: here, and here, and here), then they can surely be sued for a breach of privacy. And so it comes to pass. Lawyers acting for a Premiership footballer, who already has a gagging order, have started a legal action against Twitter and some of its users (ca;;ed \"persons unknown\"). This was bound to happen. That does not mean it will succeed, of course. You can be sure that Twitter, founded and based in the United States, will kick back at the football star's legal action. The player previously won an anonymised gagging order about his alleged affair with a former reality TV star and glamour model Imogen Thomas. Not unnaturally, that has upset Thomas, who has complained about her name emerging while the other party's has been concealed. Earlier this month, there were tweets naming various people said to have taken out gagging orders to conceal their sexual indiscretions, some of whom have strenuously denied the claims. But I found myself nodding in agreement with the lord chief justice, Lord Judge, this morning when he contrasted the credibility of the mainstream media with that of people able to say as they like on Twitter. It's all a matter of trust, he said. And I agree with him that readers do place greater trust in the contents of traditional media than in those \"who peddle lies\" on the net. That doesn't mean the lies, rumours and guessing games will stop, of course. But it will be fascinating to see how Twitter responds to the footballer's writ. Sources: The Guardian/Bloomberg",
  "title": "A Twitter writ? It was bound to happen",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/medialaw",
    "law/law",
    "media/privacy",
    "football/football",
    "us-news/us-news"
  ],
  "lead": "Roy Greenslade: How will the US-based social media company respond to legal action stemming from a European privacy law?",
  "id": "media/greenslade/2011/may/20/twitter-medialaw",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}