{
  "content": "The privacy commissioner, Timothy Pilgrim, has initiated an own-motion investigation into a serious privacy breach that saw the personal details of almost 10,000 asylum seekers held in detention made publicly accessible. On Wednesday Guardian Australia revealed that the Department of Immigration and Border Protection had accidentally published the names, nationalities, dates of birth and other identifiable information of all asylum seekers held in mainland detention centres. The release of the data is one of the most serious breaches of privacy in Australian history and could have serious implications for the asylum seekers named. \"This is a serious incident and I will be conducting an investigation into how it occurred. As part of this investigation, the department has undertaken to provide me with a detailed report into the incident,\" said Pilgrim. \"Further, the OAIC [Office of the Australian Information Commissioner] will be working with the department to make sure they are fully aware of their privacy obligations and to ensure that incidents of this nature will not be repeated.\" \"The OAIC is aware of this data breach. I have spoken to the Department of Immigration and Border Protection and have been assured that the information is no longer publicly available.\" The secretary of the NSW Council for Civil Liberties, Stephen Blanks, said the information could have grave implications for the asylum seekers identified and their families, who may still live in the countries they have fled. \"That creates a risk of grave danger to family members of the individuals who are in those countries and that may well affect the individual's entitlement to protection.\" Blanks also called on the department to notify all the detainees named about the privacy breach. \"They should notify them in writing that the breach has occurred and provide them with as much information as possible about the breach and who potentially has accessed their information,\" he said. The department said the information was never intended to be in the public domain. \"The department acknowledges that the file was vulnerable to unauthorised access. The department is investigating how this occurred to ensure that it does not happen again,\" it said.",
  "title": "Asylum-seeker data breach to be investigated by privacy commissioner",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "australia-news/australia-news",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": "Timothy Pilgrim says the Immigration Department has assured him that the information is no longer publicly available",
  "id": "world/2014/feb/19/asylum-seeker-data-breach-to-be-investigated-by-privacy-commissioner",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}