{
  "content": "Everybody has something they regard as being nobody's business but their own. This does not mean that they are up to no good, that they have a scandalous secret buried deep in their closet. Merely that there are details about their lives - from the mundane (their unlisted home telephone number perhaps) to the serious (such as treatment for a hereditary illness) - that they prefer to keep in a protected space marked private. Increasingly, however, our freedom to define a private space for ourselves is being restricted. The government and its agencies, while keen to keep their own secrets, are less willing to allow us ours, handing themselves new powers that let them steadily map our private lives. Just as chilling is how much is known about us by corporations which are busy compiling extraordinarily detailed databases of our everyday transactions. The result is that the most trivial nuggets of data are taken out of our control and scrutinised to almost microscopic levels by hundreds of different organisations. So today the Guardian launches an unprecedented three-part series uncovering the extent to which our daily lives are watched, recorded and analysed by others. Our unrivalled team of journalists is joined by the leading players from all sides of the debate to provide the first comprehensive analysis of what privacy really means in Britain in 2002. We begin by examining the challenges to privacy in the key areas of life. From our credit records to our television viewing habits, from our office email exchanges to our choice of vegetables, no detail is too small for somebody to stockpile for their future use. Even our medical records, in theory protected by the Hippocratic oath and the ancient principle of patient-doctor confidentiality, are now available for others to see - whether we consent or not. Next week, we take a closer look at the state's growing surveillance power. In the wake of September 11, we examine how the war against terror has combined with the march of new technology to have an immediate and profound impact on our privacy. In an exclusive article, David Blunkett, the home secretary and architect of this new regime, responds to his critics by arguing that the government is successfully balancing the competing goals of privacy and surveillance. And in the final issue, published on September 21, we dip our toes in the murky and burgeoning black market for illegally obtained personal information. We reveal the links between corrupt police officers, dishonest private detectives and unscrupulous journalists, and the astonishing techniques they use to unlawfully mine and trade our confidential data for profit. \"Privacy is like oxygen. We really only appreciate it when it's gone,\" wrote American academic Charles Sykes in his book, The End of Privacy. The time has come to establish how much breathing space we have left.",
  "title": "Looking forward",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "lead": "Stuart Millar introduces our special series on you, the state, commerce and privacy.",
  "id": "uk/2002/sep/07/privacy.stuartmillar1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}