{
  "content": "After the News of the World reporter Clive Goodman was jailed for phone hacking in January 2007, Les Hinton, the then-News International executive chairman, gave evidence about the case to the Commons culture committee. Hinton said that Coulson had told him that he did not know what Goodman was doing and that, as far as Hinton was aware, Goodman was the only person on the paper who knew about the phone hacking. But Hinton also said that an internal investigation into the affair was still going on. And he stressed that, on some occasions, editors did not \"get it right\" when deciding whether or not to overstep the mark. Here are the key extracts from the hearing on 6 March, 2007: John Whittingdale, the committee chairman: Les, can I come back to the Goodman case? The official version of events appears to be that Clive Goodman broke the law and has paid the penalty for doing so, that his editor was unaware that he broke the law but nevertheless took responsibility, because he was the editor, and resigned, and that is the end of it. Can you tell us what investigations you carried out to determine whether or not anybody else was aware of what Clive Goodman was doing? Les Hinton: First of all, the police obviously carried out pretty thorough investigations, and the result of their investigation was the charge against Clive and against the private detective. Clive went to prison; the News of the World paid a substantial amount to charities nominated by Prince Harry, Prince William and the editor [Coulson], who told me he had no knowledge of this activity but felt that, since it had happened on his watch, he should take his share of the responsibility, and he resigned. The new editor has been given a very clear remit to make certain that everything is done in the form of seminars and meetings. We were already doing this kind of thing in the past with all our newspapers. It has been re-emphasised. They are all attending. There is mandatory attendance at seminars, understanding the law and understanding the limits; understanding that, in the event that there is a judgment that the public interest might warrant some stepping over the line, it has to be authorised by the editor at the very least. That is all being done now. I believe absolutely that Andy did not have knowledge of what was going on. However, he is no longer the editor and what matters now is that we have to start somewhere. What we are doing now is a very rigorous programme to make sure that the conduct of the journalists there is as impeccable as it reasonably can be expected to be. JW: I commend what you are doing now, but Clive Goodman was paying for some of this information. Those cheques presumably required approval, did they not, from somebody else? LH: There were actually two issues involved in the Goodman case. There had been a contract with Glenn Mulcaire, during which he was carrying out activities which the prosecutor and the judge accepted were legitimate investigative work. There was a second situation where Clive had been allowed a pool of cash to pay to a contact in relation to investigations into Royal stories. That, the court was told, was where the money came from and the detail of how he was using that money was not known to the editor. That is not unusual for a contact, when you have a trusted reporter \u2013 which Clive was \u2013 to be allowed to have a relationship which can lead to information and which involves the exchange of money. That is what happened in that case. JW: If self-regulation is to work, if a reporter suddenly comes back with some pretty exclusive stories, is there not a procedure where somebody says, \"You can give me an assurance that this hasn't been obtained illegally or in breach of the Press Complaints Commission Code\"? LH: In the case of Clive Goodman, the stories he apparently obtained were small items in gossip columns, and therefore there would be no particular need to. In other areas \u2013 when Trevor Kavanagh came into the office and said, \"I've got a copy of the Hutton report,\" I know Trevor, and I know he had a copy of the Hutton report, and I was not about to ask him where he had got it from \u2013 because it was clearly a matter of public interest. Those lines exist all the time, and editors, when they are running aggressive, investigative newspapers, are forever having to judge the wisdom or not of stepping over the line. And \u2013 do you know what? \u2013 they do not always get it right ... JW: You carried out a full, rigorous internal inquiry, and you are absolutely convinced that Clive Goodman was the only person who knew what was going on? LH: Yes, we have and I believe he was the only person, but that investigation, under the new editor, continues. During the hearing, on the wider issue of whether using illegal surveillance methods was ever justified, Hinton suggested that in some circumstances it was. LH: If Andy Coulson, when he was editor of the News of the World, had called up the Metropolitan police commissioner and said, \"I have to tell you, Mr Blair, that one of my reporters was accessing a phone message, a voicemail, and we have reason to believe that, two days from now, bombs will go off on the London Underground,\" I doubt that Mr Blair's first words would have been, \"Mr Coulson, you're under arrest.\" We operate in this area all the time. It is not to say that we do not make mistakes or that we will continue to, but placing too great an inhibition on people who are setting out to explore what they consider to be genuine issues of public concern is a dangerous thing to do.",
  "title": "News of the World phone-hacking: Clive Goodman was the only one who knew \u2013 what Les Hinton told MPs in 2007",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/news-corporation",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/magazines",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/les-hinton",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/media",
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "world/privacy",
    "media/clive-goodman"
  ],
  "lead": "What the then-News International chairman told the Commons culture committee in the wake of reporter's jailing",
  "id": "politics/blog/2009/jul/09/what-les-hinton-told-mps",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}