{
  "content": "This is our last day of discussing Betty Friedan's The Feminine Mystique. Join us at 3pm for a live chat and then follow along on Twitter using the hashtag #newmystique. Questions for today: \u2022 Friedan is very interested in female education. Do any of your teachers stand out as being particularly good or bad? How? \u2022 Do you feel better educated than your mother? Your father? Your brothers? \u2022 When you were younger did you say, \"When I grow up I want to be\u2026?\" Did you become that? \u2022 What is your image of yourself? I want my final takeaway to end as Friedan does, by looking forward. In her final chapter, about the \"housewife's trap\", Friedan writes: It is easier to live through someone else than to become complete yourself. That line remains relevant to those of us who know women \u2013 mothers? friends? ourselves? \u2013 who live vicariously through their children rather than develop their own identity. I once said to someone who told me that I was doing important work by raising two daughters that I was brought up to make a difference myself. \"Give me a drum and I'll bang it,\" I said, fiercely. (I like making a noise.) Friedan encourages women to face their problems. Over the last 50 years we have become better at identifying our problems, maybe even facing them, but they haven't gone away. I'm not talking about the discrepancies that exist in the workplace or politics, I'm talking (as Friedan did) about the internal problems of identity. How do you see yourself? How do you want others to see you? Do the two images match? I find it interesting that the two most popular books in the last couple of years about \"women's issues\" have been Caitlin Moran's How to Be a Woman and Tina Fey's Bossypants. Both combine memoir with opinion and both are funny. Have we lightened up in the last half-century? Not necessarily, but we have learned how to laugh at ourselves. This is a good thing. On the other hand, I found myself sighing at the front-page headline on Sheryl Sandberg in Friday's New York Times, A Titan's How-To on Breaking the Glass Ceiling. What made this book and its \"carefully orchestrated media campaign\" a front-page story? And can't you just predict the \"It's all right for her\u2026\" response to a book of advice by a Google and Facebook billionairess. My advice: you have to laugh. More takeaways: Heidi Moore: I agree with you, Emma, that the test of Friedan's work is whether it makes us look forward. Since I'm not married and don't have kids, I like to look at Friedan's \"identity trap\" through the lens of the feminine identity that is imposed on us. The most important points in her book, to me, are still the commercial ones - how women are commoditized and taught we are the same, or that at least we should all be trying to look the same way and achieve the same things. Women are taught - whatever their marital status - to see themselves in the mirror of someone else's opinion of them. The image of women is quite literally wrapped up in smoke and mirrors and misrepresentation.Now, covering the business world, I hear from women in the highest echelons that the higher they rise, the more they see a different kind of reflection aimed at women. It could be called gaslighting, or even the Jedi mind trick: women are often told they're not really seeing what they're seeing. Sexism? Not really there; maybe you're sensitive. Marginalization? Well, how can you prove that? Victim of nasty gossip? That's not tangible at all. Surely, you're imagining it. A lot of the sexism since Friedan's time has gone underground. Sure, it's not about being chased around a desk any more (hopefully!) but it can often manifest as a subtle assumption that, as a woman, you deserve just a little bit less. It's a kind of jujitsu, designed to recast women's strengths into weaknesses. Is someone too popular? If it's a man, he's likable and well-respected; if it's a woman, then she's either showboating or manipulating people into liking her. Is a woman leaving the office for a spot? It must be for a hair appointment or for her kids; if a man leaves the office, it's obviously for a meeting. Is someone charged with making quick decisions? If it's a man, he's a decisive leader; if it's a woman, she's acting too unilaterally. Is someone asking for context? If it's a man, he's making sure he's getting all the facts. If it's a woman, she's prying for information.The defaults, ladies, are against us. The old, oft-used \"would you say this to a man\" rule still works pretty well. I applied it earlier this week, to a subject that both Janine and I find really interesting: that Clive Davis, the skeletal music impresario, criticized Kelly Clarkson for her \"independent streak.\" It entertains me to think of someone getting sniffy about, say, George Washington's independent streak, or even Kanye West's or Eminem's. They're expected to be independent. But a woman thinking on her own probably has to be corraled in some way. As for what to do about it, humor is really the best answer, Emma. It also helps to remember that we have it a lot better than Friedan and her contemporaries, who dug us out of a deep hole of sexism, and even previous feminist movements, like riot grrrls and the numerous social science scholars who have devoted themselves to pointing out and debunking, one by one, the assumptions about women. Most importantly, the best answer is to just keep doing good, and to just keep doing well. Tune out the haters; they don't know anything anyway, and certainly they don't know more about you than you know about yourself. Nothing has changed the picture for women like those who keep doing what people always say can't be done.",
  "title": "Pop-up book club: The Feminine Mystique \u2013 Day Three",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "books/books",
    "technology/twitter"
  ],
  "lead": "This is our last day of discussing Betty Friedan's The Feminine Mystique. Join us at 3pm for our #newmystique live chat here and on Twitter",
  "id": "books/2013/feb/22/pop-up-book-club-reading-3",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}