{
  "content": "Can the Press Complaints Commission be \"independent, consistent and effective\" (Leaders, June 17)? It is independent of any kind of public control, being, like its predecessor, the Press Council, paid for by the newspaper proprietors. It is consistent in its unwillingness to adjudicate on the majority of complaints it receives from the public. In 2002, of 2,360 complaints, it adjudicated on just 34. And it is effective as a political lobby group which has managed to prevent the introduction of even the mildest measure of statutory reform. No doubt the culture committee's report will prompt some cosmetic alterations to the procedures of the PCC. Similar bouts of reform have failed because they were devised to avoid statutory reform, not create effective regulation. The public needs a complaints system free from proprietorial control. The way to do this is to establish a press freedom law, guaranteeing rights to report and the autonomy of journalists from control, and an independent, statutory press complaints body with the power to enforce its rulings. Tom O'Malley Campaign For Press and Broacasting Freedom \u00b7 How far left can you go in a country dominated by a ferocious rightwing press? asks Polly Toynbee (Comment, June 18). If the press were really an impediment to some radical aspirations Blair cherished, he would have used his massive Commons majority to tackle it. Simply implementing royal commission recommendations on the press would have been a start. We could then have had a set of newspapers that more closely resembled the spread of opinion in the nation. If Thatcher could dare to assault the unions, Blair could surely have dared to democratise the press. But would Blair have wanted a press that provided a powerful platform for opposition to his neo-conservative agenda? A dominant rightwing press offers an excuse for leaving untouched the main structures of class privilege and power, of which the press is itself a bastion. Michael McCarthy London \u00b7 I am not surprised to learn that BBC's State of Play is to return with a new series, minus the politicians but retaining the journalist roles, (G2, June 16). Television drama is often accused of being unrealistic. But in this case reality is perfectly reflected because journalists have infinitely more power than politicians. So actors want to play journalists; students want to be journalists; and politicians long for a tenth of the power of an editor. Laura Marcus Leek, Staffs",
  "title": "Letters: Complaints on the press",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/media",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/medialaw",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world",
    "law/law"
  ],
  "lead": " Can the press complaints commission be 'independent, consistent and effective' (Leaders, June 17)? ",
  "id": "media/2003/jun/19/pressandpublishing.privacy",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}