{
  "content": "Yesterday the NHS care.data plan was abandoned after years of trying to get it off the ground, killed off by a fashionable paranoia about data collection that risks destroying so much potential good. The plan had been for all patient records to be collected electronically, anonymised to use in medical research and for NHS commissioners to track local need. Care.data would have allowed electronic surveys of vast numbers of patients receiving certain drugs or treatments: mass surveys can be more effective than some randomised control trials. Data trawls unexpectedly revealed, for instance, that patients taking metformin for type 2 diabetes had less chance of developing cancer. No one knows why, but it opened a whole new area of cancer research. Scotland does have an NHS data collection scheme: when smoking was banned in public places, a data trawl revealed fewer children were admitted to A&amp;E with asthma attacks as parents smoked less in front of their children. When the spurious link was made between MMR vaccine and autism, as damagingly promoted by the Daily Mail and leading to a mass vaccination boycott, a data trawl of GP records of vaccinated children following their progress over the years found no link. The Mail set a scare running about this NHS data: \"Your confidential records for sale \u2026 at just \u00a31 \u2026 Critics fear 'unprecedented' privacy threat.\" The fear is that patients might be identified, losing control of their records and trust in their GPs. But all data was to be fed through an automated anonymiser. The Royal College of GPs and the British Medical Association backed the project. Is there any risk? Yes, some rogue researcher always might \u2013 with great difficulty \u2013 trace the data back to the probable patient. But that's only the same risk as with current uses of patient data. NHS data is already the best in the world. Where did it go wrong? As ever the government tried to make this commercial as well as for pure research, raising alarms that insurance companies could find out about a particular patient's risks, though anonymisation prevented that. There was an opt-out for patients who didn't want their data used, but that wasn't enough for privacy campaigners. To be sure, privacy needs protection from rogues of all kinds \u2013 but we are losing all balance between benefit and risk. We need guard dogs \u2013 but they often bark when there is no burglar. This rich resource would boost medical research and sharpen NHS treatments. This echoes another piece of data vandalism, perpetrated by the government itself. ContactPoint was a database set up by Labour after the murder of Victoria Climbi\u00e9. Every child any official was ever concerned about was flagged up on the database. GPs, hospitals, social workers and teachers would add a flag to a child's name, leaving no private details beyond the professional's contact. Anyone worried about a child could check if there was already a warning flag showing someone was already concerned, so they could compare notes. Too many children have died or been damaged because no one knew their previous history. Children disappear as parents move them from school to school, or \"home-school\" to avoid scrutiny. It was up and running in 150 local authorities but in a piece of shameful pre-2010 electioneering, David Cameron and Michael Gove pledged to scrap it, claiming it was an abuse of privacy. It's highly probable children have suffered grievously as a result. Data paranoia is easy to stir \u2013 but with privacy well-protected, it can be one of the wonders of the electronic age. The Guardian's revelations showed people have good reason to be alarmed if nothing is private, everything snooped on by government surveillance of emails and phone records, while malevolent journalists hack and scam private messages. Tesco tracks your tastes; Oyster and CCTV know where you are. Personally, I can't work myself into a panic about my own privacy. I assume it's never safe to commit secrets to email: I might press the wrong key. Here's another tragedy caused partly by public panic over data. The greatest glory of UK research has been longitudinal studies: tens of thousands of children born in one week in each of the years 1946, 1958, 1970 and 2000 are being followed for life. Clues to everything we need to know are here. What weighs more, nature or nurture? Why are some children resilient to adversity while others flounder? The studies seek which physical, social or psychological factors shape people's long-term health and happiness. They first found the smoking and cancer connection \u2013 and much more. But the latest, due to follow a cohort of babies born in 2015, has been scrapped \u2013 partly because mothers of new babies could not be recruited: they refused. There is confusion as to whether the approach to them was badly bungled \u2013 but the upshot is no new cohort study despite David Willetts as science minister fighting long and hard to win treasury funds. There is dark age thinking in too much fear of data collection. Too many refusers mean there may never be another census collected as before. But we need to know about ourselves \u2013 for provision of good public services, for health and for curiosity about human life, habits and the causes and cures of human distresses. Over-caution about privacy killed off care.data. The government will try to resurrect it with better protections \u2013 but we need it, and all good data collection.",
  "title": "A viable shot at a better NHS has been killed off by privacy paranoia | Polly Toynbee",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/data-protection",
    "science/medical-research",
    "society/nhs",
    "society/health",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/society"
  ],
  "lead": "Care.data could have advanced medical knowledge but our collective fear of data collection has caused it to be abandoned. It will be our loss",
  "id": "commentisfree/2016/jul/07/better-nhs-killed-privacy-paranoia-care-data",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}