{
  "content": "As more connected products come to market, from smart thermostats on our walls to connected wearables on our wrists, how will we pay for it? Will we sign contracts as we do with mobile phones, getting hardware for \"free\" and paying for services? Or will we get discounts or free devices by handing over our personal data, as we do with Google and Facebook? Smart home services are likely to be paid for the same way as mobile phones, predicted Stephen Pattison, vice president of public affairs at British chip designer ARM, speaking at the HyperCat internet of things Summit in London on 8 June. \"What we'll be looking at in the future is a big company ... coming to your door saying they could give you all your white goods \u2013 your television, your phone, your tablet, they can do security around your house \u2013 and they will charge you rent for that,\" he said. Trading our data for services An alternative, especially for apps based on hardware we already have, is trading our data for free services \u2013 think of how Google or Facebook get their revenue without charging people to use their platforms. \"It's a fantastic free service, but they monetise [your] data,\" noted Brian Robertson, networking firm Broadcam's business development director for EMEA. \"The freemium model has created a monster that we're all quite happy to use.\" However, research suggests we're no longer happy to pay for services with our private data, so the IoT industry may be smart to find a different way. Symantec's CTO, Darren Thomson, said company research suggested a \"marked change\" in consumer behaviour towards privacy of late, with a recent report revealing personal privacy was viewed as more important than quality of service. \"That's the first time that's ever happened,\" he said. Perhaps because of that, people are starting to lie to such services, giving false information to access them while keeping their personal information safe, Thomson said \u2013 and that's a problem for companies that rely on our data to power their business. \"I would suggest that that fundamental idea starts to fall to pieces if we find that a high percentage of people that are contributing that data are actually lying in order to get access to that service,\" he said. Tackling the growing aversion to handing over personal data, IBM fellow Andy Stanford-Clark suggested, would need companies to act more ethically and stop trying to \"catch us out\" with complicated terms and conditions. Instead, firms should help users actively and intelligently opt in to data collection where they are happy with it. Lord Erroll, chairman of IoT standards group HyperCat, suggested that there should be a \"basic minimum level which you can't sign away\" to protect users from unknowingly handing over too much data, while helping to rebuild trust in such companies. Another solution is to hand all our data to one company, and let it act as a broker \u2013 similar to how PayPal holds your payment card data and only passes it on to retailers at your request. John Davies, chief researcher at BT, pointed to startups that will do just that for data, helping give control of data back to consumers. \"Their whole business model is predicated on the notion that they will own your data for you, [and] will sell it,\" Davies said. IoT services \u2013 and websites and apps, for that matter \u2013 could also offer discounts to users who share their data. \"This can be a way in which individuals can realise the benefit of their data,\" Pattison said. \"But one of the problems with that is it has to be a real choice. You can't have a world where you've got companies saying ... if you don't hand over all your data you don't get this service at all. It has to be a world where there's this phased, staged approach.\" Users prefer to pay upfront? Rather than hand over data, perhaps we should start paying upfront for such hardware and services \u2013 a point made by Apple CEO Tim Cook last week, who argued his firm believes it's better to base the bottom line on cash than to sell customers' personal data to advertisers. Robertson said he'd happily pay for otherwise free applications or services if it meant he could keep his data safe. \"As a consumer, I would definitely consider it, especially for my kids,\" he said, explaining that adults are better equipped to make careful privacy decisions than children, who may agree to any data handover to keep playing their game. That could be done with micropayments, with consumers doling out a small payment to get access to an application or service when they use it, which could help reduce our dependency on selling our data, Robertson added. Regardless of which business model dominates the IoT, ARM's Pattison said protecting privacy and handing data ownership back to people is the key. \"If we don't get this right, this data protection right, we will not liberate data to drive the smart world that we're all trying to create,\" Pattison said, adding later: \"The main principle is we must all accept that consumers own their own data. I think this whole experiment will fail if we don't get that right.\"",
  "title": "Tech firms need to use data ethically around the internet of things",
  "lead": "Free services usually mean we pay in data and privacy. Is there a better business model for connected homes?",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet-of-things",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/computing",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2015/jun/10/tech-firms-need-use-data-ethically-internet-of-things",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}