{
  "content": "Technology has levelled the playing field, opening up remarkable opportunities for young people. According to a Populus survey, more than a quarter of 16- to 25-year-olds want to set up their own business, and 14% are in the process of doing so, compared with 8% only a year ago. But there is something else at play here, another trend emerging. For many of these new digital entrepreneurs, the primary objective is to improve the world rather than their own bank balance. They are looking for radical solutions to social problems rather than creating a product or service that will make them a stash of cash. That doesn't mean their aims are any less ambitious. Take 22-year-old Aaron Jones, whose goal is universal access to education. He has set up the multi-award winning Fikay, a lifestyle brand all about successful living and giving. It produces fashion accessories using recycled cement bags, employs co-operatives and members of fair-trade organisations and, for every purchase made, Fikay donates to educational building projects in south east Asia. Fikay has already helped to build one school in Cambodia with plans for many more to follow. \"Why,\" says Aaron, \"do some children have the right to an education while others don't? Fikay is my adventure and mission to change this.\" If social change is the primary driver for many of the new generation of entrepreneurs, digital is their vehicle of choice. In recent years, there has been a proliferation of initiatives designed to encourage young people to develop their digital skills. Code Club, Young Rewired State, Freeformers, Digital Youth Academy and Coderdojo (itself established by 21-year-old James Whelton) are just some of the organisations equipping young people to move from being consumers to producers of digital content, products and services. A new generation of digital makers is emerging, but more exciting still is the fact that so many young people are using their digital skills to tackle such seemingly intractable social challenges as education, healthcare, human rights and social isolation. Milena Bottero is another inspiring example. Her online Room for Tea, set up when she was 22, is a network that connects interns and apprentices who need short-term, affordable housing with an older generation of hosts who want the company. Jamie Davies, 15, takes time out from school and homework to fine-tune hacks on his startup, CauseHub. By far the youngest team on the Nominet Trust/Bethnal Green Ventures accelerator, Jamie and fellow co-founders Sanjay Poyzer, 23, and Jerome Toole, 21, are working on a product that will disrupt the way we engage in online decision-making. Sanjay says: \"We want to enable people to act online in more meaningful ways than just placing their name on a petition. We want to ensure that people contributing to a cause can clearly see the effect their action has.\" These new social tech entrepreneurs are all about action, as demonstrated by the huge demand for courses offered by Apps for Good, which provides support for young people wanting to design apps that will improve their world. Aaron Sonson, 25, a graduate of Apps for Good, is the founder of the Stop &amp; Search app, which allows users to check their rights and to give feedback on their experiences of the controversial police practice. Released in April 2013 and downloaded by more than 5,000 people, the free app has had great feedback from the Metropolitan Police and locals in south London. Aaron says: \"The app brings more fairness, accountability and transparency to the stop-and-search procedure.\" Digital technology is the single most powerful tool we have ever had. It's exciting to see a new generation of social entrepreneurs using this technology in imaginative ways to tackle complex social challenges. The future looks to be in good hands \u2013 and hearts. Annika Small is the chief executive of Nominet Trust. For more news, opinions and ideas about the social enterprise sector, join our community.",
  "title": "The new social entrepreneurs: young, tech-savvy \u2013 and improving the world",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "sustainable-business/sustainable-business",
    "education/students",
    "money/graduates",
    "education/graduation",
    "education/higher-education",
    "education/education",
    "society/socialenterprises",
    "society/society",
    "business/entrepreneurs",
    "business/small-business",
    "business/business",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "sustainable-business/social-enterprise"
  ],
  "lead": "Solving social problems rather than getting rich is the priority for tomorrow's ambitious entrepreneurs, says Annika Small",
  "id": "social-enterprise-network/2014/feb/05/young-tech-savvy-doing-good-new-generation-social-entrepreneurs",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}