{
  "content": "As well as having a devastating effect on the human population, South Sudan's prolonged civil war is endangering the future of its wildlife. Elephants, giraffes, buffalos, antelope and other vulnerable species have been caught up in the fighting. Paul Elkan is a director for the Wildlife Conservation Society, the only major conservation NGO working in South Sudan, despite its incredible biodiversity. In 2007 he was part of a team that re-discovered mass wildlife migrations in the Sudd region. He also leads a campaign to stop elephants being killed for their ivory across Africa. Elkan says that elephants are \"veterans of war\" whose natural instincts help them find places of safety. Even so, their numbers have dropped dramatically in the past year. We asked Elkan to take part in an Ask Me Anything webchat on Reddit. What is it like working in conflict zones? Are there any signs of hope? Here's what we learned: The demand for ivory is the biggest threat to Africa wildlife Reddit user King_elessar asked whether the widespread conflict across Africa was the biggest threat to its wildlife? Elkan was quick to point out that this is not the case. \"Whilst there is conflict in some countries, this is not the story for the whole of Africa. Right now one of the biggest threats to elephants is human demand for ivory, largely driven by the Chinese demand.\" Responding to another question about what ordinary people can do to help, he suggested that Chinese citizens petition their government to put a stop to the ivory trade. Being a conservationist is a dangerous job \"We've been caught up in violence many times over the years and our camps have been overrun. There's been times when my life has been in danger,\" said Elkan, adding that this was just part of the job, wherever you work. South Sudan does have its own unique challenges though: \"armed groups and occasional bad weather just to name a few\". The dangers can often stop their work all together. At the moment his team is concerned about the tiang antelope, whose migratory corridors pass through one of South Sudan's combat zones, but they haven't been able to get in quantify the extent of the problem.: South Sudan is invested in wildlife When caught up a conflict the basic instinct is one of survival, but even in the throws of South Sudan's civil war which has seen 10,000 people killed and 1.9 million displaced, civilians caught the cross fire, local authorities, and warring factions are committed to protecting wildlife. \"Clearly people dealing with that type of threat are primarily concerned with their own safety,\" but they are also asking us to help protect their wildlife through difficult times, Elkan said. Protecting natural habitats can contribute to national security Mdeyns asked if wildlife conservation and well-managed national parks could contribute to national security efforts. Elkan said that all efforts to protect natural habitats would vastly improve the situation for the people and the wildlife living there. For example: \"monitoring activities project vigilance and governance in to remote areas, sometimes used by outlaws and armed groups. By patrolling these areas they can be stabilised.\" Some things are working Stoooooooo asked for an uplifting story \"in the midst of the turmoil and tragedy\". Elkan obliged with an example of the work they've been doing with a community in Bandingilo park in South Sudan's Equatoria region. They've started to patrol with wildlife authorities to help protect the animals. It worked and the poaching has slowed down: \"I was flying over the other day and saw a big group of giraffes. It was a pretty incredible sight in the middle of a war zone,\" Elkan said. They have also made headway protecting giraffes, elephants, white eared cobs and oryx in the southern part of the country where the fighting is less intense. As for hope post-conflict, Elkan said that he knows that there are people on both sides who care about wildlife: \"when they can reach peace and start thinking of getting back to nation building wildlife conservation will be part of the process.\"",
  "title": "Protecting wildlife in South Sudan's civil war \u2013 Reddit AMA highlights",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/south-sudan",
    "technology/reddit",
    "environment/wildlife",
    "world/africa",
    "global-development/conflict-and-development"
  ],
  "lead": "The Africa network asked an expert working for South Sudan's biggest conservation NGO to take part in an Ask Me Anything session with Reddit users. Here's what we learned ",
  "id": "world/2014/dec/12/-sp-protecting-wildlife-south-sudans-civil-war-conservationist-reddit-ama",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}