{
  "content": "Having an online presence is essential for the success of many small businesses today. According to serial entrepreneur James Caan, a good website lends credibility to your business. Not having one gives a bad impression to prospective clients, he says. Importantly, it is about letting potential customers know you exist and social media is a great way to drive traffic to your site. As Julia Bramble, founder of social media consultancy Bramble Buzz, explains in a Guardian article: \"If businesses haven't got the right [social media] presence then they're really going to be missing out, because customers are expecting to find businesses and brands on there.\" But going online isn't just about marketing and PR. Some retailers are utilising online marketplaces and e-commerce sites, such as Etsy.com and Alibaba.com, to boost profits. With so many options available at the click of a mouse, how do you know what's right for your business? Which is the best route to grow your SME's online presence? To help you navigate a digital path to success online, we've put together a panel of experts to share their experiences, tips and suggestions on everything from targeted advertising on Facebook and launching a viral marketing campaign on Twitter to creating your own website and using online marketplaces. Post your questions in the comments section and join us from 11am to 1pm on Friday 18 October for a live Q&amp;A session about how you can make the most of your online presence. This week's panel: Tom Britton is the chief technology officer and co-founder of crowdfunding platform, SyndicateRoom. Previously, Tom completed an MBA at Cambridge where he focused on developing startups and software based projects. Lynsey Sweales is CEO and online marketing expert at SocialB, specialising in providing social media and online marketing training and consultancy to all sizes of businesses. She tweets at @socialBuk James Hall is a director of Fishneedwater, a London estate agent that combines the best of traditional property marketing with the power of the internet and new technologies. Clive Rich is a lawyer by training and has just set up LawBite, an online legal service for SMEs. He is an expert on the legal hurdles you might face growing a business online, such as registering your company's name and setting up a domain name. Jon Norris is editor of Freelance Advisor, a blog for freelancers, contractors and small businesses. He is also web editor of online accountancy firm Crunch. Nick Tamplin is a director of Zevizo Properties, an online estate agent where people can sell their properties for a fraction of the cost of traditional estate agents. Adam Ball is the general manager of Concept Cupboard \u2013 an online business which connects companies with student and graduate creative freelancers. Dominic Hiatt is the founder of Just In Time PR, a 100% results-based PR agency that helps smaller businesses to raise their profile in the media. John Hoskin is a director of CleverAccounts.com, an online tax and accountancy service designed specifically for the UK's small businesses. Andy Hatoum is the co-founder of Placebuzz.com, a fast growing UK property portal where people can search for their ideal home to buy or to let. Barnaby Lashbrooke is the founder of Time Etc, a new platform that enables business owners to grow and manage remote workforces online. Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.",
  "title": "Live Q&A: Growing your business online",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "small-business-network/small-business-network",
    "small-business-network/winning-new-business",
    "business/business",
    "business/small-business",
    "media/social-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/efinance"
  ],
  "lead": "From using social media to building a website, join us on Friday 18 October at 11am to hear expert advice on going online to boost business",
  "id": "small-business-network/2013/oct/15/growing-business-online-live-chat",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}