{
  "content": "This is an unusual column as it's not about the journalism in the Guardian but how the newspaper became associated with what Alan Rusbridger, the editor in chief, described as \"grossly insensitive\" remarks about the deaths of three young men on the microblogging site Twitter. It is an object lesson in how fast organisations have to move to address accusations cannoning around the vast echo chamber that is Twitter. It began with the deaths of three 19-year-old friends \u2013 Bruno Melling-Firth, Conrad Quashie and Max Boomgaarden-Cook \u2013 in a bus crash during a gap-year trip to Thailand. The Guardian wrote a substantial news account of their life and death, with a photo of the three taken a few days before the fatal crash. This was published on Friday 1 July and included expressions of grief from friends, quoted from Twitter. But also on Twitter, it quickly emerged, were two disparaging remarks about the fatalities. They were made by Kia Abdullah, a young journalist and novelist, and were, she now says, a profoundly misguided attempt at black humour, based partially on the victims' names. Abdullah's words, which she deeply regrets, might never have been seen by the families of the young men who died had it not been for the fact that some people who spotted them noticed that her Twitter profile said she had written for the Guardian. This led some Twitter users to leap to the conclusion that she was on the newspaper's staff, which amplified their shock and surprise. The complaints began on the Friday afternoon and intensified when other media organisations published stories online describing her as a Guardian journalist. The Guardian issued a statement on Friday pointing out that Abdullah was neither on staff nor contract and had last written for Comment is free 14 months ago. To give some idea of the context, 48% of Guardian content \u2013 in print and online \u2013 is written by freelance journalists. Some 5,500 freelances have written at least five times for the paper in print or online in the last two years. The Guardian's initial statement failed to stem the tide of complaints as other media organisations largely ignored it. A member of one of the three families who read about Abdullah's remarks in another newspaper wrote to the Guardian expressing pain and puzzlement that we would employ anyone who might make such remarks. On Sunday Rusbridger issued a statement: \"Kia Abdullah is not, as has been reported, a Guardian journalist or a Guardian columnist \u2026 Her grossly insensitive remarks were on her own personal Twitter feed, for which the Guardian has no responsibility and over which it has no control. Of course we deplore her comments and the distress they have caused the relatives and friends of Max, Bruno and Conrad. The Guardian would never have published such offensive comments.\" Within 24 hours Abdullah had realised the effect of her remarks on the families, removed the reference to the Guardian from her Twitter profile and tweeted an apology. I emailed her last week to ask about her remarks and she again expressed her deep regret. She said: \"I apologised for the comments immediately after posting them. I have since apologised directly to the Boomgaarden-Cook family and asked them to pass my message to the Melling-Firth and Quashie families. I have, in addition, made a public apology.\" What lessons can we learn about the way the Guardian manages its relationship with freelances? Should we look at the wording of our commission contracts to ensure greater clarity in terms of that relationship? If freelances want to associate themselves with the paper, can we require them not to bring the paper into disrepute? The Guardian archives all articles on its website, which also carries brief profiles of writers. I don't think we should remove them, but should we be more specific about what we say in them? Whatever we do, no change to the Guardian's processes can lessen the impact of this tragedy on all three families \u2013 which no one wanted to make worse, no matter how inadvertently. \u2022 If you have any views on this article please email reader@theguardian.com as the comment thread will not be opened",
  "title": "Open door: Kia Abdullah, Twitter and the Guardian",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/theguardian",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/internet",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Chris Elliott: The readers' editor on\u2026 the distress caused by a freelance journalist's offensive tweets about three tragic deaths",
  "id": "commentisfree/2011/jul/10/open-door-kia-abdullah-twitter",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}