{
  "content": "The PCC's adjudication on the suicide pictures is understandable. The decision by three newspapers to publish the images of Katherine Ward plunging to her death was a matter of taste and decency, and the editors' code of practice specifically - and correctly - avoids laying down rules about such matters. I found the pictures distasteful as, I'm sure, did many other people. If I had been an editor at the time I would not have published them. Clearly, I would have been among the majority because only three papers carried them, and the editors who chose not to publish probably did so for reasons similar to mine. They found the pictures distressing, were worried about the possible hurt caused to Ms Ward's family and friends, and they were also likely to have thought their readers would be upset too. I understand that Ms Ward chose to take her own life in public and therefore it could have been construed to be a public event. However, I take the view that showing an identifiable person engaged in suicide because of mental anguish, as distinct from doing so as a matter of political protest, cannot be said to be in the public interest. Indeed, I do not believe the public to be interested either. But that's the point, is it not? Editors must have the right to offend their readers if they so wish in the full knowledge that if they do so then their readers might turn their backs on them. Each curb on an editor's freedom must be based on measurable, objective criteria, such as matters of accuracy, intrusion and payments to criminals. Taste and decency is almost impossible to define and must remain a matter of fine judgment by journalists. That was one of the reasons that the old Press Council collapsed in the 1980s under the weight of editorial hostility. Its rulings were considered too subjective and therefore too inhibiting of press freedom. So the editors who drafted the code in 1990 set out to allow editors the right to make mistakes. Given that the PCC's central task is to adjudicate on the basis of the code it could not reach any other decision than to find in favour of the offending papers. In a nutshell, the PCC was right to find the editors not guilty, but the editors were wrong to publish. It sounds crazy but it does make sense. One other strong objection to using suicide pictures - or describing a suicide in too detailed a manner - is the possibility of encouraging copycat behaviour, and I note that the commission's code committee plans to consider this matter. I welcome this initiative but it will prove a tough rule to devise, taking account of what I've just said. But it should not be beyond the wit of the members to come up with some form of words to remind editors of their responsibilities without curbing their freedom. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "Private grief, public interest?",
  "lead": " The press watchdog was right to find the editors not guilty, but the editors were wrong to publish, says Roy Greenslade",
  "tags": [
    "media/privacy",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/media",
    "uk/uk",
    "world/privacy",
    "world/world"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2006/mar/31/privacy.pressandpublishing",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}