{
  "content": "Google has fixed a critical Adobe Flash Player bug that is being exploited in the wild - but only for its own Chrome browser. Users of Flash Player in other browsers will have to wait for Adobe's official patch, which will require testing against around 60 platforms and configurations. Chrome is able to get the fix because it has an ongoing collaboration with Adobe which gives it early access to new builds of Flash. The \"zero-day\" vulnerability - meaning that it was discovered being used in the wild, rather than by security researchers hunting for bugs - embeds a malicious Flash file in an Excel document; that is then sent to people on a target list, and if opened can compromise Windows-based computers - though Microsoft says that machines running Office 2010 are protected through a security system called data execution prevention. Older versions of Windows using Chrome will be safe only if they don't have Flash Player for Internet Explorer installed, and view Flash only through Chrome, according to an Adobe spokeswoman. Adobe says the bug is \"critical\" and hopes to release a fix this week. Chrome has seen little exploitation targeting it specifically. Along with Mozilla's Firefox, it escaped unscathed at the recent Pwn2Own competition in Vancouver while Safari and Internet Explorer 8 were hacked. However, nobody attempted to break into Chrome; the only would-be challenger did not turn up. An iPhone 4 running iOS 4.2 and a RIM BlackBerry Torch running OS6 were also both hacked; a Nexus S running Android 2.3 and a Dell Venue Pro running Windows Phone 7 remained unhacked. In theory though the exploit used to attack the BlackBerry Torch - via WebKit - was also available in Chrome, though Google moved quickly to patch it.",
  "title": "Google fixes Flash exploit in Chrome, but others have to wait",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/google",
    "technology/chrome",
    "technology/web-browsers",
    "technology/adobe",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "lead": "Adobe vulnerability being used to hack some machines, with fix expected later this week",
  "id": "technology/blog/2011/mar/21/adobe-flash-exploit-chrome-browser",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}