{
  "content": "Pardeep Kullar and Steven Lai came up with the idea of Likeourselves.com in November last year, and it has taken five full-timers to get the site off the ground since then. What they've built, and what launched on Friday, is a site that offers customisable location-based social networks that anyone can set up. That's a bold idea, but can it work? Kullar says Likeourselves is backed by the potential for cost-per-action advertising, but also says businesses will pay for a custom service with enhanced features. With 1,000 users since the beta launch, the team wants to have build a userbase of 500,000 by April - all funded amongst themselves, and from their homes in London. Curiously, Likeourselves all use Google Wave to collaborate on the project, and swear by it. So at least five people have been using Google Wave, then. \u2022 What's your pitch? \"Individuals can use it to co-ordinate meeting up with like-minded people, whether that's singles, fellow expats, students, recent graduates or any other group. Businesses can create their own groups for their own users, so a social network for the 240,000 or so French expats in London could create a group for them and tell them about it. Each organisation can then have its own global geo-social network, and it's free.\" \"As a user, after you've chosen your groups and tags, open up either the website or the app on your mobile and it will search within 20 miles of your location for the largest number of people checked into bars, cafes, museums and so on. Check in and then click 'hi' to the people you want to talk to. \"A business could create a 'Flatmate seekers' group, add tags like 'non-smoker' or 'no pets' and add their own advertising. Users choosing these other people in the group with the same tags. A business could have a gathering of its users globally without any planning of venues because users co-ordinate themselves.\" \u2022 How do you make money? \"We could use a freemium model, where we could charge businesses who wanted unique additional features. We also believe that a user within walking distance of the point of purchase means that advertising can be 'cost per action' - so if a user follows an advert, checks into the advertising bar and buys a drink then we can charge according to the success of that advert. It's for this reason that we think Google Places and Facebook Places will aim to process venue owners and give them their own venue pages to link their offers directly to front end location services. Location based advertising is big money and it was not easily accessible before but via smart phones, it is now.\" \u2022 How are you surviving the downturn? \"While the downturn might reduce the volume of people heading out, people will still head out regardless. It might be that they look for greater quality when they do go out and we provide quality by bringing them into venues with people they genuinely want to spend time with. In terms of funding, the average costs of a start-up have been greatly reduced by cloud computing and so we can survive longer but our ambitions would require funding at some point.\" \u2022 What's your background? \"I graduated from LSE in 1997 and completed a Masters in information systems in 1998, after which I worked for several small companies developing websites and applications. I then moved into business analysis, sitting between technology and business departments for American and Canadian multinationals and in government. Prior to this project, I cut my teeth on building another start-up where I worked discovered how not to do things. \"Steven is a marketing and sales professional and he provides a balance to our start-up which would otherwise be tech heavy.\" \u2022 What makes your business unique? \"We built this start-up with the intention of giving a location-based social network to every person, bar, club, university, pop fan group and any other organisation with a strong userbase. It's relevant for Ning groups, LinkedIn groups, Facebook and Google groups and so we've built a model which is entirely different from any other location based service.\" \u2022 What has been your biggest achievement so far? \"Execution. To have an idea, build a team and produce an output is something which is never discussed in depth when people talk about start-ups but we've learned to respect companies that execute on their ideas, especially those that do it with small teams and minimal funding.\" \u2022 Who in the tech business inspires you? \"To our 'lean' startup, the greatest influence has come from Silicon Valley professionals such as Eric Ries of the lean start-up movement, Paul Graham of Y Combinator, Steve Blank (customer development), Sean Ellis (marketing), Mark Suster (funding) and even Dave 'i swear a lot' McClure (everything). We try and follow a lean startup philosophy - we make 'speed of learning' our priority. Rather than wondering if one thing is going to work, we'll try two and find out quickly which is better. It's a scientific approach to developing a startup and we look to take the best advice from some of the best guys out there.\" \u2022 What's your biggest challenge? \"While building up user numbers is an obvious answer, the hardest thing is to know if and when to pivot the business model. We are currently trying to find a balance between adapting to user feedback, which results in changes and sticking to a vision. As Henry Ford said 'If I'd asked my customers what they wanted, they would have asked for a faster horse'. We are learning what people want and adjusting accordingly, but we also have to keep in mind that we might need to try a different direction in order to survive as a business. It feels like a test of intelligence and courage.\" \u2022 What's the most important web tool that you use each day? \"Funnily enough, the one software that is essential to us, is being abandoned by its owner. We use Google Wave for team communications and it's invaluable. We all work from home and so our communications are all done within multiple Waves.\" \u2022 Name your closest competitors \"While many people talk about Foursquare (and they are a potential competitor), we think a company like Loopt.com is also dangerous as they have products focused on helping new people meet. Also, Mark Zuckerberg has shown that he still thinks like a competitive startup owner rather than the head of massive company and this area will interest Facebook, so we'd expect to see changes to Facebook Places allowing more options in the future. If we prove we have a good business model, it will be replicated. That said, we think strategically and we'll build to establish a userbase that wants to stay with us.\" \u2022 Where do you want the company to be in five years? \"We'd be very happy if a Likeourselves account became the first real universal mobile profile i.e. any time you meet someone at a bar, convention or networking gathering, you are able to swap details with anybody you meet. There will be a lot of competition for this space, although, very few are talking about it at present. We capture the right sort of details, in the right way to allow this and while we might not have that functionality right now, it should be simple to add. \u2022 Sell to Google, or be bigger than Google? \"It depends on the speed and size of our competition. We'd consider a partnership or acquisition if it made strategic sense otherwise, yes, the bigger the better.\" Likeourselves.com",
  "title": "Elevator Pitch: Likeourselves offers bespoke location-based social network",
  "lead": "Bootsrapped but aiming for the sky, two Londoners are aiming to open up the location trend. By Jemima Kiss",
  "tags": [
    "technology/startups",
    "technology/location-based-services",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/pda/2010/oct/18/likeourselves-location-social",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}