{
  "content": "Recklessly or repeatedly mishandling personal information should become a criminal offence, a committee of MPs urges today in the wake of the child benefit fiasco. A report from the justice select committee says there is evidence of a widespread problem within government and expresses concern that further cases of data loss are still coming to light, adding that concerns about systemic failings were raised two years ago by the man now in charge of the government's review of security. The committee says that companies should be obliged to report information losses. \"The scale of the data loss by government bodies and contractors is truly shocking, but the evidence we have had points to further hidden problems,\" warned Alan Beith, chairman of the committee. \"It is frankly incredible, for example, that the measures HMRC [HM Revenue &amp; Customs] has [now] put in place were not already standard procedure.\" The report was prompted by HMRC's loss of computer discs containing the personal and bank details of all British families claiming child benefit. Further revelations of data losses by nine NHS trusts and a transport department contractor increased concerns about the handling of personal details by the government and businesses working for it. Richard Thomas, the information commissioner, told the committee that he believed more cases involving the loss of personal data had yet to come to light. Mark Walport, who heads the government's main review of data protection, warned two years ago that departments needed to improve security when sharing data. The committee says the government must find ways to minimise the risks inherent in maintaining large databases to which a large number of people have access and suggests that new offences might strengthen security procedures. Criminal offences under the Data Protection Act - such as unlawfully obtaining or disclosing personal data - only apply to people who are not the \"data controller\". That means that although third parties who misuse the details can be prosecuted the people holding the information, such as large businesses or government departments, cannot be held responsible for breaches. Beith said: \"Clearly, criminal sanctions are not the only ones you want to use. But perhaps the issue would be taken more seriously if there was a criminal offence at the end of the line.\" The report also argues that the information commissioner needs more resources. At present his office's budget is just \u00a310m a year.",
  "title": "MPs say losing computer data should be made a crime",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "uk/uk",
    "politics/politics",
    "technology/data-protection",
    "technology/technology",
    "society/benefits"
  ],
  "lead": "Recklessly or repeatedly mishandling personal information should become a criminal offence, a committee of MPs urges today in the wake of the child benefit fiasco",
  "id": "uk/2008/jan/03/politics.uknews4",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}