{
  "content": "It is great news for local government that 98% of councils in the UK are using some form of digital or social media to engage their communities and digitise their services. This approach brings many benefits, including greater transparency, direct interaction with residents and real time customer service. The Cabinet Office estimates that the introduction of new digital services \u2013 and the redesign of existing ones \u2013 will save the taxpayer and service users around \u00a31.2bn by 2015 and at least \u00a31.7bn a year thereafter. But despite three-quarters of local authorities believing that social media represent an opportunity to make financial savings \u2013 presumably part of the \u00a31.2bn that the Cabinet Office is looking for \u2013 according to BDOs survey of local government social media use, only 5% were able to demonstrate savings of more than \u00a310,000. In the BDO's 2013 report, 63% of those surveyed believed that using social media produces savings, but they have struggled to demonstrate how. What's more, 40% of the councils surveyed are investing more than one full time equivalent day each week in social media, which means that the person managing social media is costing more money than he or she is saving. So, how can local councils measure the savings that the use of social media brings? According to the UK Treasury's value for money framework, there are three areas to bear in mind, including maximising the use of resources, making sure what comes out of the system solves or addresses real problems and getting more out of what you put in. In practice this means making sure the value of social media comes from more than just counting the number of retweets your council gets. Here are a few suggestions about how local authorities can measure their success: \u2022 Calculate the value of getting additional feedback through social media and the added value this feedback has brought to services. \u2022 Use visitor flow analytics (Google Analytics has this, as will other analytics packages) to indicate the path various users are taking as they click through to the council site from different social media sites. Calculate where they visit and if their needs are answered better this way than through any other customer service touch point. \u2022 Keep track of how many customer service enquiries have been completed via social media and see if this has saved time for employees dealing with the issue, comparing time saved to other customer service channels. The above suggestions are just ideas, but hopefully show how councils can go beyond measuring likes and retweets to show the real savings made through social media. From the 5% of those surveyed who have managed to show how they have saved over \u00a310,000 through their social media use it would be good to hear ideas on how this has been measured. Ben Matthews is head of communications at Futuregov \u2022 Want your say? Email sarah.marsh@theguardian.com to suggest contributions to the network. Not already a member? Join us now for more comment, analysis and the latest job opportunities in local government.",
  "title": "Top tips: how councils can measure the success of social media",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "public-leaders-network/service-delivery",
    "society/localgovernment",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/social-media",
    "public-leaders-network/public-leaders-network",
    "public-leaders-network/local-government"
  ],
  "lead": "The value of social media for local authorities is hard to measure, but Ben Matthews says there are ways we can show its benefit",
  "id": "local-government-network/2013/jun/14/top-tips-social-media-councils",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}