{
  "content": "Closed circuit television surveillance is big business. In 2001, there were about a million CCTV cameras in use in the UK: today, that figure is more than 4m. It may grow even faster now that the industry is waking up to the benefits of using digital recording with internet protocol (IP) cameras, instead of traditional analogue cameras and tape storage. In Europe, IP cameras are expected to account for about 20% of a surveillance market forecast to be worth \u00a3300m in annual sales by 2008, up from less than 5% today, according to IMS Research. Many businesses are dipping their toes in the digital waters. Drinks retailer Thresher Group has been trying Panasonic IP cameras to reduce the incidence of false alarms at its Brighton store. Two pan and tilt cameras complement an alarm system storing images on a 40GB hard disk. If a break-in triggers the alarm, video images are, within seconds, automatically sent over the internet to a control room. An operator can also view real-time images to assess the situation. The images are sent using encryption to eliminate security risks. Aside from automating and centralising some of the process of surveillance, the system has other benefits. It does away with tape and the expensive handling of tapes, and it can run continuously due to \"first-in-first-out\" (Fifo) storage of images. This also provides extra backup as a result of images being saved locally and centrally. Thresher, which hopes to roll out IP cameras nationwide, says the system was instrumental in convicting two thieves who broke into the Brighton store, and has led to a dramatic reduction in shoplifting. But due to a legacy of traditional cameras and coaxial cables, most firms are opting for hybrid systems that retain their investment in analogue cameras. Mobile operator Orange recently chose an IP system to link more than 400 analogue cameras in warehouses and data centres, allowing engineers and security staff to remotely monitor sites from the office or home using a laptop or PC connected to the network. The cameras link to digital video recorders in 50 locations nationwide. These link to an IP network allowing access from any location. Orange has also developed services to allow security staff to access images using mobile phones and PDAs. But digital surveillance is not without problems. Most important is the question of the bandwidth if you put video output on to existing company networks. Bob Tuck, head of business development at BT's remote monitoring subsidiary BT Redcare, says one solution is an overlay network. \"IT managers get very nervous about putting video on their networks, so the key is an overlay network to ensure jumps in bandwidth can be handled.\" Sam Samuels, principal security adviser at property consultants Captia Symonds, agrees. \"The bandwidth of a number of cameras sending video data over a Lan is considerable, with a consequent hit on the speed of the network,\" he says. \"This can mean a vital aspect of company security is being controlled by IT technicians, a function that may have been outsourced, and whose last priority is the stability of the CCTV system.\" He recommends that high security applications with a large number of cameras use a conventional CCTV system, \"albeit with an IP-addressable control and storage system\". But the biggest attractions of IP CCTV are cost savings through simpler maintenance, and the ease of centralising control from a number of locations under surveillance. One of the UK's largest IP CCTV systems is at Luton Airport. Rather than installing miles of fibre-optic cable to expand its existing analogue system, Luton opted for 100 new IP cameras all streaming video across the airport's local area and wide area networks. Luton Airport says its control and monitoring centre can now be moved to any point on the network, or to another of the group's airports. New cameras can be installed by setting up a new network point, as opposed to installing new cabling. Images from cameras are easily shared with 15 locations around the airport. Chris Boyce, commercial director of Intruder International plc., the security firm that installed the Luton system, says the next few years will be defined by hybrid systems. \"We generally install systems that include analogue cameras feeding into digital video recorders or a digital switch. The key to network bandwidth is to use it sparingly, by designing the system so that most access is only 'on demand'.\" Boyce says that while use of IP cameras is still embryonic, it is widely accepted that storing digital CCTV images on hard disk has overtaken tape storage for the first time this year. However, the cost argument for all-IP systems will become more compelling as IP cameras drop in price and the Power over Ethernet (PoE) standard comes into widespread use. \"The real driver for IP is the new PoE standard,\" says Keith Humphries, of EuroLAN Research. \"Now that is coming through, retailers can really think about the possibilities.\" Essentially, PoE means that cameras can get their power from the network point: you only need one cable and one plug, instead of separate data and power cables. This brings cost savings and increases the resilience of the system. But the shift to digital surveillance is also driving the idea that surveillance must be \"event driven\", with cameras being \"passive\" until activated by motion detection software. \"Even with larger networks, you simply cannot run thousands of cameras that are constantly streaming video across a network: this creates a valueless image-saturation,\" says Peter Goodenough, managing director of security firm Hisec International. \"With the police limiting call-outs to alarm events, businesses are becoming forced to employ costly private security to respond to intrusions. Event-driven Video over IP enables remote, targeted monitoring and recording that can negate the need for such costly call-outs.\" An even greater expansion of IP CCTV could follow from firms experimenting with wireless links to IP cameras. Clive Black-Barrow, account manager at security specialists Bailey Telecom, says: \"Security is a big issue, and clearly there are concerns over eavesdropping and jamming wireless connections, so it is something that needs careful consideration. But where the images are not highly sensitive - such as basic staff monitoring - I think it will be popular.\" But what will really tip the balance in favour of IP systems will be the ability to use computers to analyse stored images. Retailers are already linking image retrieval to bar codes so they can review sales of a particular item, looking for what they call \"sweethearting\" - the practice of undercharging on specific items. More advanced users are experimenting with using pattern recognition software to spot changes in the movement of customers. This could be used to detect suspicious behaviour before a crime takes place, or to predict shopping behaviour in relation to promotions. The move from analogue to digital surveillance looks likely to bring a dramatic increase in scope. This could re-ignite the debate over how much surveillance is acceptable before it becomes an invasion of privacy. \u00b7 Send email to online.feedback@theguardian.com. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.",
  "title": "Inside IT: Eye spy with my little network",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/internet",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "lead": "Closed circuit surveillance systems are going digital, which will not only reduce costs but lead to a dramatic increase in the scope of coverage. Ken Young reports.",
  "id": "technology/2004/jul/22/onlinesupplement.internet",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}