{
  "content": "Getting security right is hard, especially for businesses. Outside of fending off scores of attacks on a daily basis, they have to deal with their own employees opening up risk by making stupid mistakes. On top of that, security chiefs have to worry about the tech protecting the company's data actually working. So things often go wrong, either in hopelessly inevitable or horribly surprising ways. With that in mind, the Guardian has uncovered some of the more embarrassing failings that have somehow managed to avoid public attention. Until now, of course\u2026 Happens to the best of them\u2028 The worst security snafus are often born out of technology failures. Mistakes at anti-virus (AV) vendors have caused plenty of pain over the years. The Guardian was told by one source about one security firm that accidentally sent a malicious file to its entire UK security base back in 2004. If opened, it risked getting malware on employees' machines. Remember, this is a company that is supposed to stop the propagation of such nastiness. \"They recognised the error straight away and notified all the UK users the infected file had been sent to, asking them not to open it, and setting out what to do if the document had been opened,\" says our source, who was involved in the clean-up operation. \"It wasn't a nasty worm, and there were very few reported infections, but it was obviously not ideal for an AV company.\" Certainly the funniest AV company cock up came in 2012 when Sophos infamously identified its own security software as a computer virus and then deleted some of its critical files from those systems it was installed on back in 2006, McAfee identified Microsoft Excel as a virus and promptly removed it from affected computers. A nuclear password leak?! Passwords often provide the keys to the kingdom. Occasionally, they leak on the public internet. To find these, attackers do Google searches related to their target to see if the search giant has indexed any useful login details. This is known as a \"Google dork attack\". \u2028 One might expect a small to medium-sized business to leak some secrets online, but what about the US government's Nuclear Regulatory Commission? A post on a public forum this March noted the organisation, which governs the safety of nuclear power production and other civilian uses of nuclear materials, had leaked a username and password in an Excel file that could be accessed via Google. \u2028 It does not appear the documents that are accessible using the logins are particularly interesting. But it's clear the files were valuable enough to have some kind of protection wrapped around them. \u2028 The NRC says the documents protected by the password were publicly available anyway, but the researcher who uncovered the credentials, who went by the name Hon1nbo, tells the Guardian \"this is still a bypass of their business logic in that a user doesn't have to make a formal request, and that they don't know who is accessing data under these credentials,\" Hon1nbo says. Given passwords are often re-used, any kind of leak is worrying. \u2028 This is a lesson for everyone: make sure you aren't openly sharing passwords, no matter what they're for. And for anyone involved in nuclear power: don't leak anything, ever. When the good guys do worse than the bad Sometimes facepalms don't do the errors they deplore justice. Security consultant Brian Honan was working with a customer on dealing with an attack, where they believed they had located its source. They subsequently contacted the security service provider the client used, asking it to block connections coming in from the attacker. But rather than just cut off one source from the outside, they shut off all connections into the company. \"The service provider had not only blocked that IP address but all external IP addresses resulting in remote workers and offices not being able to connect. So instead of mitigating the impact of the attack the provider mistakenly caused more damage than the attacker,\" Honan says. \"Lesson learnt, always be very clear in requests to third parties, especially when under pressure, and never assume the person has the same level of understanding of the situation as you do.\" Copying idiocy Honan has another rather splendid tale from the days when technology was poorly understood. At least by one poor fellow. Honan explains: \"Many years ago a client rang to say they had computer virus on a CD they had received. I asked them to send me a copy of the CD so we could analyse what was on it. \u2028 \"To my surprise a few minutes later our fax machine chirped and gurgled as it received a photocopy of the said CD. Lesson learnt, always be explicit in your instructions and don't assume people interpret technical terms the same way you do.\" \u2028 Oh\u2026 You're only supposed to blow the doors off Businesses often do physical security badly, even though the same basic principles apply to their PC protection. Take passwords. We all know not to have them printed in an easily perceptible physical format, right? So the same would go for passcodes to access buildings, right? Wrong. \u2028 \"I was doing an audit of a secure facility inside an office block that used two-factor authentication for entry into the secure area, comprising of an access card and a four digit pin. All looked good and met the criteria that needed to be met. However, knowing this environment and the people concerned fairly well, and with a fair amount of hubris, I concluded all wasn't right. The project managers were openly adamant everything was fine,\" says Thom Langford, a security consultant. \u2028 \"It turns out that the four digit pin that had been supplied to the individuals used the last four digits of the badge, printed on the back of their badge. To make my point I then proceeded to let the next 10 or so people into the secure area by taking their card and using the last four digits of the card.\" Not the banks! The UK's banks are often the vanguards of the security world, showing us all how it should be done. But, as we all know, the banking industry isn't always responsible. For instance, former convicted hacker turned legit, Cal Leeming, says that when he was brought on board at one major bank after his imprisonment to highlight ways people can subvert their systems, he disclosed a flaw he liked to exploit in his darker days. That was back in 2006. Leeming says the bank still hasn't fixed the issue. \u2028 Javvad Malik, from analyst firm 451 Research, remembers one case where following an incident at a major financial institution, a security provider was brought in to investigate. They discovered that an entire portion of the organisation's network, known as a or Demilitarised Zone, was not being monitored. That zone is essentially a subnetwork used by companies to check for requests coming from the public internet. It's where companies detect malicious activity, so if you aren't monitoring it, something has gone very, very wrong. It's clear even those who are supposed to have the highest levels of data protection, whether they're financial institutions, nuclear power regulators or security companies, are prone to error. Which at least should make you feel a little better if your Facebook account gets hacked...",
  "title": "Carry on leaking: when corporate security goes really, really wrong",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "world/privacy",
    "technology/data-computer-security",
    "technology/hacking",
    "technology/technology",
    "technology/viruses"
  ],
  "lead": "From viral mistakes to embarrassing data losses: companies can mess up in a variety of surprising ways. By Tom Brewster",
  "id": "technology/2014/apr/24/corporate-security-failures-mistakes-data",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}