{
  "content": "MySpace has hired David Fischer as its first managing director for the UK and Europe as the social networking site gears up for further international expansion. Mr Fischer, who will be based in London, reports directly to the MySpace founder and chief executive, Chris DeWolfe, and will be responsible for all of the site's activities in the region. MySpace has earmarked expansion into 11 further territories, including France and Germany and possibly India and China in the long-term. Mr Fischer's background as a senior media figure with digital music and content experience fits with MySpace's ambitions to develop revenue streams and partnerships with the entertainment industry. Before joining MySpace he was founder and chief executive of the Xlantic Group, an international entertainment group that develops new business models in the production and marketing of music and other media. Prior to that he served as managing director of digital download service Pressplay, a joint venture by Sony Music Entertainment and Universal Music Group, which sold music over the internet and was acquired by Napster. He has also been a vice-president at AOL Europe and managing director of Compuserve UK. Mr Fischer said he was keen to develop \"the aspects of MySpace that make it unique, including its diverse and extensive content and the innovative ways that it can work with advertisers.\" He said MySpace's aim was to be a global brand that \"engages with its users on a local level\" and that his goal was to create \"more content tailored to European users\". MySpace claims to have more than 85.3 million users worldwide, with over 3 million in the UK. Mr Fischer will work closely with Jamie Kantrowitz, the senior vice-president of marketing and content for Europe, and Jay Stevens, the vice-president of sales operations for the region, who are also based in London and will report directly to him. MySpace launched a UK version of its site on April 24 this year. The localised UK version of the site has functions and content tailored for the UK, such as better compatibility with UK postcodes and a UK-dedicated music channel. MySpace opened a European office in London in January. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 \u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".",
  "title": "MySpace  targets European expansion",
  "lead": "MySpace has hired  its first managing director for the UK and Europe as the social networking website gears up for further expansion. By Mark Sweney",
  "tags": [
    "media/mediabusiness",
    "media/media",
    "business/business",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk",
    "technology/web20",
    "technology/myspace"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "technology/2006/jun/20/news.citynews1",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}