{
  "content": "All my friends are on snapchat all the time sharing photos of themselves, and even taking pictures of biscuits they want to eat asking the world whether they should eat it or not. I don't really like this but feel under pressure to do the same. Which books can I read to make me feel I can be different and to give myself a bit more self respect? Navigating the space of teen years lies at the heart of much YA fiction \u2013 and it always has done. Today, it is widely acknowledged that teens are under enormous pressure from a wide range of sources. There are school pressures, home pressures and, above all, pressures on conformity which can make it hard to express what you are really thinking or how you feel. Being laughed at for being \"different\" is a long-standing anxiety of adolescence. Having the right look, mixing with the right crowd, being the right level of successful at work and sports \u2013 are all issues which are likely to make many feel left out and inadequate. In earlier books, which reflected the simpler but equally vicious climate of face-to-face confrontations in the classroom, Judy Blume explored these issues in titles such as Blubber. Told by Jill, one of the tormentors, Blubber is the story of how a whole class turns on Linda and humiliates her physically and mentally. When at last Jill stands up to the ring leader of the bullying she soon becomes a victim too. Ultimately, however, Jill recognises that she can stand up for herself \u2013 and for others too. She finds a new friend and the class settles down in greater harmony. At the time of its publication, the unpleasant persecution Blubber described was an accurate reflection of the contemporary scope of school bullying. The now endless possibilities of being \"shown up\" not just in the classroom but far, far further afield on social media, has ratcheted up the opportunities for anxiety. This seems to be used most damagingly to promote absolute conformity which inevitably reduces self-confidence and creates a bullying culture, in which doing your own thing is immediately up for attack. YA fiction and non-fiction is currently full of how this is played out in all kinds of ways \u2013 and how friends, family and curious pieces of luck can all help to build resilience against the more destructive aspects of peer pressure. In Annabel Pitcher's Silence is Goldfish (published at the end of September, so you have to wait a couple more weeks to get hold of it) Tess spirals into a complicated world of wishful thinking and make-believe as she tries to make her life better. Previously low in self-respect, Tess's survival campaign depends on trying to \"fit in\" which essentially means being invisible. She knows she's a misfit \u2013 she's too big for a start \u2013 but at least she has one friend \u2013 Isabel \u2013 another misfit. When her home life starts to unravel so badly that she becomes electively silent, she loses her only friend and seems to attract even more hostility from the cool group at school. Under the pretence of befriending her they trick in unpleasant small ways as when they buy her an enormous burger and then eat tiny salads themselves and in much bigger ways with persecuting text messages. In the end Tess resolves the problems she has at home and finds the inner confidence to stand up to the bullies at school. Annabel Pitcher allows Tess to have the self-respect that is necessary to kick out against her role as victim and become confidently \"different\" instead. In Louise O'Neill's Only Ever Yours and Asking For It the stakes are even higher and they are pitched at older readers. Both show how easily girls are cowed into submission by sexual expectations and pressures. In Only Ever Yours, set in a dystopian future, freida and isabel (note the lower casing of their names) are willing to do everything necessary to make themselves attractive enough to win the status of \"wife\". But the price is high \u2013 the worst fault is being fat \u2013 and the sacrifices they must make for themselves and to each other is a big price to pay. Louise O'Neill's hard-hitting satire is tough to read, but it will inspire all readers to fight back against stereotypes and objectivisation. In Asking For It, a contemporary novel, Emma, is raped. Having deliberately created Emma as an unlikeable character, Louise O'Neill provokes readers to think whether they would emulate the \"blame the victim\" attitude that is adopted by some of the small town community in the book. Asking For It is a book that will make every reader reassess what they feel about rape and the urgent need for the stories about it to be written in a new way. On a more upbeat note, Hayley Long's Being a Girl is a useful read about how to be yourself \u2013 and survive! Following on from her best-selling Lottie Biggs novels and Sophie Someone, in Being a Girl, Hayley Long packages up useful information about being comfortable with your body \u2013 size, spots, the rituals surrounding dating, managing cruel comments in class and taking bullying on the internet seriously and dealing with it. I also want to draw attention to James Dawson's This Book is Gay, which has been described by Patrick Ness as, \"The book every LGBT person would have killed for as a teenager, told in the voice of a wise best friend.\" It is full of myth-busting information about sexual orientation and gender identity and will encourage all readers to think more open-mindedly about stereotypes and \"being different\". Got books to recommend on this theme? Tell us on email childrens.books@theguardian.com or on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks and we'll add them to this blog. You can also ask the Book Doctor a question on Twitter or email using #BookDoctor.",
  "title": "Which books can I read to give myself a bit more self respect?",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "books/booksforchildrenandteenagers",
    "books/books",
    "culture/culture",
    "books/teen-books",
    "books/louise-o-neill",
    "books/james-dawson",
    "technology/snapchat",
    "media/social-media"
  ],
  "lead": "The Book Doctor prescribes books for a teenager who is struggling to navigate the highly pressurised space between childhood and being an adult, particularly resisting push to conform on social media",
  "id": "childrens-books-site/2015/sep/14/teen-books-for-self-respect",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}