{
  "content": "London-based social gaming startup Playfish is celebrating after striking a $400m (\u00a3240m) deal to join the world's biggest games publisher, Electronic Arts. After months of speculation over the possibility of a buyout, the Californian publisher announced today that it was acquiring the two-year-old company, which makes popular Facebook games such as Restaurant City and Pet Society. Unlike traditional gaming studios, which tend to focus on single-player titles or large-scale multiplayer online games, Playfish's products are tightly integrated with social networking sites like Facebook, MySpace and Bebo. As a result, they have proved immensely popular, with more than 150m downloads and installations already and many of the most popular Facebook games. The deal, said senior EA figures, would add \"proven expertise\" to the Californian company's offerings as the shape of the industry altered. \"Social gaming, with its emphasis on friends and community, is seeing tremendous growth,\" said Barry Cottle, senior vice president of Electronic Arts Interactive. \"This is the right time to invest to strengthen our participation in this space.\" Playfish chief executive Kristian Segerstrale said that joining the larger company would bolster plans to expand and become the undisputed industry leader. \"Joining EA is the ideal opportunity for us to push forward our goals to lead in the social entertainment evolution on a faster and much larger scale,\" he said. \"Together, we are in position to be the company that defines new and innovative connected experiences that will change the way people play games.\" Electronic Arts, the maker of blockbuster titles such as The Sims and Fifa 10, has been pushing hard to try and move into social gaming, and earlier this year former chief operating officer John Pleasants said that it had a $1bn warchest for acquisitions and had \"huge regard\" for the company. The acquisition is initially comprised of a $275m cash deal and $25m in equity - with a further $100m in performance-based bonuses available if the company hits targets set by EA executives. Investors in Playfish included London-based venture capital firms Accel and Index, which has previously invested in Last.fm and Skype. The company, which has estimated revenues of around \u00a345m a year, recently opened a new office in San Francisco - just a few miles from Electronic Arts HQ in Redwood City, California. Despite the widespread interest in the development of social gaming, however, the industry is undergoing a controversy after industry blog Techcrunch accused a number of companies of unethically profiting from users who were unwittingly encouraged to pay money for virtual goods for some social games. The row, which included accusations that some enticements resulted in children signing up to expensive mobile phone subscriptions, has hit Playfish but most of the opprobrium hit one of its competitors, Zynga, and its partners. MySpace chief Owen Van Natta publicly said that any game which scams would be blocked by the site, while Zynga chief executive Mark Pincus has said that he would be taking steps to improve the situation.",
  "title": "Playfish sells to Electronic Arts in deal worth up to $400m",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "technology/games",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/digital-media",
    "technology/facebook",
    "technology/startups",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/mergers-acquisitions",
    "business/mergers-and-acquisitions",
    "technology/technology",
    "business/business"
  ],
  "lead": "London-based social gaming startup Playfish is celebrating after striking a deal to join the world's biggest games publisher, Electronic Arts",
  "id": "technology/2009/nov/09/playfish-ea",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}