{
  "content": "The norovirus isn't the only contagious phenomenon this month \u2013 the festive spirit has infected the chart, with seasonal offerings sprinkled throughout. While Aardman's creations swap Crimbo gifts to help Google push its social network, Kiefer Sutherland's maverick terrorist-torturer puts Santa through the wringer to get the names of his reindeer in a Yule-flavoured 24 parody. Then there are the seasonal songs \u2013 lower-case indie popsters The xx shake up Last Christmas while Channel 4's staff choir go carolling for charity with a 1990s cover, Stay Another Day. And the year gets reviewed on YouTube in a mashup of the channel's top 2012 viral stars, led of course by South Korea's own supervirus, Psy. Beyond the festive fare, Clark Kent dons cape and tights to save the Earth again in a trailer for the new Superman while in a preview of oceanic blockbuster Pacific Rim, Idris Elba announces \"Today, we are cancelling the apocalypse!\" That's a relief, then. A contender for sport of 2013 is futsal \u2013 indoor football that's big in Brazil \u2013 if its other players match Falcao's superhuman skill with a ball. More trickery, this time of the digital kind, from student film-makers highlighting the dangers of Canada's wildlife. Their ingenious hoax footage of a bird of prey picking up and dropping a tot has been criticised by bird identification experts and video geeks but it fooled international media and worried Montreal parents. Not everything the public tweet and post about is lightweight, though. One of the most watched videos this week was the speech made by Barack Obama in the aftermath of the Newtown school shootings \u2013 sombre thoughts for the darkest time of the year. Guardian Viral Video Chart. Compiled by Unruly Media and given a festive twist by Media Guardian 1. Wallace and Gromit reunited for a Christmas Google+ ad. Taking on Facebook with a secret weapon \u2013 stop-motion family favourites. 2. Jack Bauer interrogates Santa Claus Naughty \u2026 but nice. 3. Golden eagle snatches toddler Careless raptor in Montreal film students' expert spoof. 4. Rewind YouTube Style 2012 The year's viral stars in Gangnam Style mashup. 5. The xx sing Wham! Last Christmas I gave you my heart, but the very next day you gave it an indie makeover. 6. Pacific Rim trailer Dive in for a first look at Guillermo del Toro's man v seamonster sci-fi epic. 7. President Obama on the shooting in Newtown, Connecticut Reaction from the White House. 8. The 4Tunes Christmas charity single in aid of Crisis Channel 4 staff cover E17, what could be more seasonal? 9. Football, but not as we know it Brazilian futsal superstar Falcao scores a spinning backheel lob free-kick golazo (you'll understand what that means when you see it). 10. Man of Steel trailer Is it a bird? Is it a plane? It's an advance peek at the latest version of Superman. Source: Viral Video Chart. Compiled from data gathered at 3pm on 20 December 2012. The Viral Video Chart is currently based on a count of the embedded videos and links on approximately 2m blogs, as well as Facebook and Twitter.",
  "title": "Guardian Viral Video Chart: Wallace & Gromit and Jack Bauer v Santa Claus",
  "lead": "Christmas silliness and seasonal songs feature in the top 10 alongside football with a twist and a hoax of the year contender",
  "tags": [
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/media"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "media/2012/dec/21/viral-video-chart",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}