{
  "content": "There is a picture on Instagram that perfectly captures the current row about who decides what is fashion. The dispute is between Vogue magazine, fashion's ultimate arbiter for the last 100 years, and the fashion bloggers regarded by their millions of social media followers as the real deal. The picture, posted by the blogger Caroline Vreeland, was taken during Milan's fashion week. It shows the editor of American Vogue, Anna Wintour, timelessly chic, being followed down the street by a much younger woman in a shiny vinyl coat, black shorts and fishnets. She is pointing and laughing at Ms Wintour's unresponsive back. Street style challenges high fashion; digital unsettles analogue; democracy threatens elite. In one way this is a familiar story, an everyday tale of the brutal disruption of an old business model by a new one. Vogue's accountants will undoubtedly have a nasty headache from the financial success of a handful of bloggers such as Susie Bubble and Chiara Ferragni, young entrepreneurs who have monetised their personalities by turning their online presence into brands and their millions of followers into a market for their own lines of shoes or swimwear. The bloggers have brilliantly exploited the capacity of social media to be a global platform for free-spirited creativity: now Vogue accuses them of selling out to commerce. Some of Vogue's criticisms verge on the petulant; but the accusation that the bloggers are selling out goes to the heart of a real debate. Posing for photographers in paid-to-wear fashion, as some do, rather than taking selfies showing off their own style, says Vogue, \"heralds the death of style\". The bloggers, laughing and pointing again, note that Vogue itself depends on close commercial relationships with the major fashion brands. Bloggers, in contrast, build their brand on being real people, wearing real clothes; they see themselves as self-created style celebrities and entrepreneurs. For them, Vogue's attack is motivated by envy of the way their authenticity has usurped traditional authority, directly challenging glossy magazines such as Vogue, whose historic genius is to put together fantastical, highly staged images that are as desirable as they are remote from reality. Vogue's real response to the challenge was to adapt the \"real\" appeal of the digital fashionistas for itself. The high-street fashion chain H&amp;M is at it too. Its latest commercial features a diverse mix of models and bloggers (and an almost subliminal glimpse of a hairy armpit) set to a version of the Tom Jones song She's a Lady. Fashion houses now often tear up invitations to the fashion editors and put the bloggers on the front row, final proof that authenticity is the new authority. But if the bloggers are becoming enmeshed in the world of big business, they may have set the clock running on their claim to authenticity. Their success depended on their ability to sell themselves as unique personalities acting autonomously. They are not all conventionally good-looking, they claim to be Anyone, living in Anytown. Now they are becoming recognised celebrities, sought out by the industry, and they are changing from creative artists into commercial players. For a fleeting moment they democratised fashion. Now it looks very much as if they may be becoming another elite, new and young \u2013 but an elite just the same.",
  "title": "The Guardian view of Vogue v the bloggers: business is winning | Editorial",
  "lead": " Vogue accuses the fashion bloggers of selling out. The fashion bloggers ask how would Vogue know (and why would they care?)",
  "tags": [
    "fashion/fashion-industry",
    "fashion/fashion",
    "fashion/fashion-weeks",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/digital-media",
    "media/magazines",
    "media/pressandpublishing"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2016/sep/29/the-guardian-view-of-vogue-v-the-bloggers-business-is-winning",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}