{
  "content": "The recent court verdict on Sean Duffy has put the motivation of trolls in the media spotlight. There is, I believe, a huge difference between the kind of bullying and harassment epitomised by Duffy, and the average internet troll. Duffy went well beyond disrupting comment threads and, in the act of making videos, his behaviour reminds me more of people sending poison-pen letters, or the childish insults swapped by Greek and Turkish teens over the web that ended, for a while at least, in YouTube being banned in Turkey. The first instance of spam on the internet is well documented. Gary Thuerk sent it on 3 May 1978. The first instance of \"trolling\" isn't, but that also started in the 1970s, on the modem-linked networks of computers that were the precursor of the worldwide web. A \"troll\" is defined as someone who deliberately sets out to disrupt an online community \u2013 whether by posting inflammatory remarks, attacking other members, or by constantly dragging threads off topic. A troll's efforts can be sustained over time. At one stage in the early 2000s, the BBC's Doctor Who message board was plagued by one who would post in badly spelt patois, and deliberately get key facts about the show wrong. Regulars would steer clear, but there would always be one new member who would naively point out that Patrick Troughton, not Patrick McGoohan, was the second doctor. There was something almost admirable in the way that the troll had learnt exactly how to provoke a reaction from the community \u2013 but you couldn't help wish they would do something more useful with their lives. The artist Lucy Pepper has made an insightful series of portraits of the classic internet trolls, dividing them into different types. \"The Caged Crusader\", for example, is envious of those with more success than them, while the \"Rectifyer\" is on a mission to correct anybody whose worldview, spelling, or grammar deviates from their own, obviously correct, standards. So what motivates a troll? A craving for attention? The same kind of urges that leads kids to make prank phone calls or play Knock Down Ginger? A real world grievance? Or just a combination of boredom and a bit too much late-night beer? Anonymity is often cited as a factor in why people behave this way, as there is often little consequence, and virtually no chance of being publicly held to account. One problem for site owners is that the definition \"trolling\" can be in the eye of the beholder. As some of you may well know, it isn't uncommon for the phrase \"tory troll\" to be bandied about on Comment is free in the direction of anyone who dares to disagree with what can be perceived as the \"party line\" of the paper. Disagreement, though, isn't trolling in my view. Moderation can help, although it can also be divisive. I think of moderators as being analogous with referees in football \u2013 of course they sometimes make mistakes, but then they wouldn't be having to make decisions at all if the players weren't constantly trying to circumvent the rules of the game. And, of course, newspaper comment sites aren't averse to publishing pieces designed to be extremely provocative. It is surely no coincidence that James Delingpole actually rhymes with \"troll\", a gift to limerick writers the world over. Users don't always even understand that they are perceived as disruptive or trollish. In 2009, while at the Birmingham Post, the journalist Joanna Geary met and video-interviewed one of the site's most fearsome below-the-line contributors, \"Clifford\". She said: \"With some considerable trepidation, I invited him for a tour of our offices. The man I met in reception could not have been further from what I expected \u2013 polite, erudite, passionate and engaged in local news. For his part, he was oblivious to the image he had been portraying to others online.\" Sometimes technology is held up as an answer. But I'm not a fan of looking for technical solutions. Comments are left by people, read by people, moderated by people, and reacted to by people. If there is a problem with trolls on a community site, the solution has to be found with the people, not the software. By even approaching the topic of trolling on websites, I imagine this article will spark quite a feisty debate below the line. I'm interested in one thing in particular \u2013 have any of you deliberately trolled a site? If so, why? What did you get out of it? And why did you stop? \u2022 Disclaimer: Martin Belam is not a Guardian moderator, nor does he work with our moderation team.",
  "title": "All you trolls out there \u2013 come out and explain yourself | Martin Belam",
  "lead": "Martin Belam: While Sean Duffy went far beyond the average troll's actions, his case has brought the strange world of internet trolling to the fore",
  "tags": [
    "technology/internet",
    "media/socialnetworking",
    "media/media",
    "technology/technology",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "id": "commentisfree/2011/sep/14/troll-sean-duffy-internet",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}