{
  "content": "Hayseed asks about the chain of command at News Corporation: Not much discussion here of any role played by Les Hinton, now safely tucked away in New York running the Wall Street Journal. He was in charge at Wapping before Rebecca \u2013 what did he know and when did he know it? FlashMyGirth adds: I would like to know is whether or not this sort of behaviour extends to other bodies in the News International family \u2013 both in this country and overseas. When this first came out it was spun as a single rogue reporter. Then a few rogue editors. At worst it seems that Murdoch will say a single paper is rotten and should be cut loose. None of this will impact of the ethics or not of NI. Is there any evidence to suggest that this is systematic across NI and that other bodies \u2013 such as the Sun, the Times, or Sky \u2013 and beyond that Fox etc, will be dragged into the scandal? Thea1mighty wants to know more about the police investigation: Would it not be right for Operation Weeting to raid the NI offices and remove all the email and accounts servers in order to preserve evidence? PizzaRe wants to challenge the original investigation into the allegations, asking: Why the Met police didn't investigate these criminal acts properly first time round? Why all political parties failed to ensure that the police did their job (I know they are supposed to be independent)? Sure hacking is reprehensible, but the failure of our elected representatives and police to do their job is enforcing the law is far worse. Houses goes after the prime minister: Brooks is a close personal friend of Cameron and Coulson was Cameron's preferred choice of employee. Exactly how much does our disgraced prime minister know? Is this why Coulson had to go? Will he be meeting Brooks for drinks in the near future? Will he throw his drink in her face on behalf of the country? MrSmart offers some provisional questions for a public inquiry: 1. How many ex and current UK cozzers do direct or sub-contact work for NI / NotW? 2. Why have the cozzers kept the phone hacking information secret for so long? 3. How many shares do politicians own in NI companies? Conflict of interest? 4. How many people have been paid to keep quiet about the phone hacking? 5. Are there any pending prosecutions against NI current or ex employees or contractors? 6. How many have criminal convictions \u2013 if any (spent or unspent)? Lorenzo1 has a very comprehensive list? 1. Why, after her statement about paying police, was Brooks not taken in under caution for questioning \u2013 instead allowing her to clarify her statement without proper questioning? 2. Why did the first police investigation fail to show any wrongdoing given the overwhelming level of evidence currently being unearthed? 3. Why have NI been allowed to \"volunteer\" information? 4. Why did the police not remove all computers and servers from NoW when criminal wrongdoing was first unearthed? 5. Why have they not demanded that NI hand over (under a court order) a list of names of all police paid by the company and a list of who authorised the payments? 6. Why have those police who received payments not been suspended? 7. Why have the police not instigated an investigation into corruption when these allegations were first made? 8. Who is paying Mulcaire's legal fees? 9. What assurances, if any did Cameron seek from Coulson in appointing him? 10. If the police are now required to review cases as a result of payments to police officers, the cost to the public purse will be huge, should NI be obliged to shoulder the cost? 11. Why was Goodman paid money for issues relating to his contract being terminated when he went to jail \u2013 was this hush money? 12. Why have the police not demanded a list of all freelance investigators contracted by the NoW and sought court orders to raid their homes? If the practice was systemic it is unlikely to have been limited just to Mulcaire since we are told the practice was well known and easy to do. 13. If Coulson authorised payments to the police as editor, he knew about criminal wrongdoing, sanctioned and condoned it yet stated he knew nothing as an editor, has there been any perjury or are there any sanctions for misleading Parliamentary commissions? 14. If as an editor Coulson knew \u2013 what did Brooks know? More questions? Add them below.",
  "title": "Phone hacking: the questions our readers want answered",
  "core-words": null,
  "tags": [
    "media/phone-hacking",
    "media/pressandpublishing",
    "media/national-newspapers",
    "media/newspapers",
    "media/media",
    "media/newsoftheworld",
    "media/newsinternational",
    "politics/politics",
    "uk/uk",
    "media/privacy",
    "media/rebekahwade",
    "media/press-intrusion"
  ],
  "lead": "A selection of questions posted by readers about the phone-hacking scandal",
  "id": "media/2011/jul/06/phone-hacking-questions-readers-answered",
  "class": null,
  "words": null
}