{
  "id": "healthcare-network/2012/feb/10/reverse-decision-london-trust-merger",
  "class": false,
  "title": "NHS advisory panel reverses decision on London trusts merger",
  "lead": "Co-operation and Competition Panel says it will now back the merger of three London trusts after agreement on safeguards",
  "content": "The merger of Barts and the London, Newham university hospital and Whipps Cross university hospital trusts has been given the go-ahead by the Co-operation and Competition Panel, despite the body's previous concerns about the move. The advisory panel, which investigates and advises the Department of Health and the NHS regulator Monitor on potential breaches of competition rules, said it reversed its decision after safeguards to protect service quality for patients were agreed by the merging trusts and local health commissioners. It has previously said that the move could reduce the choice of providers open to patients. In December, the same month that NHS London approved the merger, the panel said it believed the merger was likely to adversely affect the provision of routine elective and non-elective care provided by Newham hospital. Since then the CCP said it has been consulting to address these concerns. It will now recommend to health secretary Andrew Lansley that the merger go ahead on the basis that all partiesdeliver on the promised benefits of the merger and keep the quality of patient care high. Catherine Davies, director of the CCP, said: \"Given the risk that patients at Newham hospital could lose out from this merger, it's only after very careful consideration and a comprehensive set of safeguards being agreed that we have felt able to make this finely balanced decision. \"The merged trust will be subject to close and ongoing scrutiny to ensure that quality of service is not affected in the way that we \u2013 and others in the area \u2013 are concerned about, and that the promised benefits of the merger are indeed delivered. She added: \"We looked very closely at alternative merger plans for these hospitals which would not reduce patient choice in the same way. However, while potentially offering a better outcome for patients, we had to concede that, in reality, any such alternative plans would be subject to considerable uncertainty and delay.\" Commenting on the panel's decision, the trusts said in a joint statement: \"This announcement is very welcome. The recommendation to merge came from clinicians wishing to improve care for patients. We believe that by joining forces we can improve the health of local residents, make services more accessible and raise the quality of care available in each hospital.\" The health secretary will make a final decision on the plans later this year. This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the healthcare network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.",
  "tags": [
    "healthcare-network/healthcare-network",
    "healthcare-network/hospitals-and-acute-care",
    "healthcare-network/england"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "words": null
}