{
  "id": "music/tomserviceblog/2012/oct/08/jorg-widmann-contemporary-music-guide",
  "class": false,
  "title": "A guide to J\u00f6rg Widmann's music",
  "lead": "Widmann's essential project is to reveal the continuing vitality of Mozart or Schubert \u2013 and he brings it kicking and screaming into the present day, writes Tom Service",
  "content": "Listen to this. Sound familiar? It both should \u2013 and shouldn't. J\u00f6rg Widmann's Third String Quartet, the \"Jagdquartett\" (Hunt Quartet) is based, as you'll have heard even from just the first few bars, on the obsessive repeated rhythms from the first movement of Beethoven's Seventh Symphony. But the German composer Widmann, who is not yet 40, dares what Beethoven could not, making that infectious, foot-tapping dotted rhythm the basis for an exploration of musical violence, extremity and dissonance; a musical hunt that goes further than the figurative hunt-motives of the classical and romantic periods (Mozart, after all, also wrote a so-called \"Hunt Quartet\"). Widmann writes out the potential for sadism and humour latent in these archetypes; the piece ends with the rest of the quartet symbolically hunting down and killing the cellist. (As some string quartets may want to actually do in real life \u2026 ) That piece is the middle panel of Widmann's gigantically expressive and ambitious cycle of five string quartets. But now try this, his orchestral piece, Armonica, composed in 2007. Sound different? It sure does: music scored for large orchestra and glass harmonica (another relic of the 18th century, in fact, and an instrument Mozart wrote for at the end of his life, but which has scarcely been used in the 20th and 21st centuries). The piece casts an ethereal web of sound that seems to radiate from the harmonica's ghostly, almost electronic textures with slow-moving, overlapping chords and sensuous orchestral glitter, and an accordion acting as a kind of sonic intermediary between the glass harmonica and the rest of the orchestra. That kind of expressive diversity and sensitivity to the instruments, forms and traditions for which he is writing is rooted in Widmann's unique musical life as a composer and world-class clarinettist. He's also a useful conductor and an almost equally accomplished pianist, who has pretty well the entire tradition of classical music at his fingertips: he busked through almost the whole of Schumann's piano works when I met him at his home in Freiburg a few years ago. Like his teacher Wolfgang Rihm, Widmann doesn't reject any aspect of musical tradition. His music is a dialogue, homage and continuation of the essential concerns of the music he loves most: Beethoven, Schumann, Schubert, Mozart, Mahler, Berg \u2013 as well as Rihm and Lachenmann. But it's much more than that. Born in 1973, Widmann is young enough to be freer than previous generations of German composers of the style-police of modernist ideology \u2013 freer, in other words, to be the musician and composer he wants to be rather than having to obey the diktats of any creative orthodoxy. But the range of Widmann's music anyway makes pigeonholing him or his work an impossible task. Another pair of contrasts: the magnificently opulent orchestral Lied, a dream of late romanticism that manages to be nostalgic and contemporary at the same time, and the splintery energy of the F\u00fcnf Bruchst\u00fccke for clarinet and piano. The reason I think Widmann's music is so invigorating and important is that it not only charts a new musical and imaginative terrain \u2013 one that is joyously free to plunder the entirety of music history from Mozart to Lachenmann for its own ends \u2013 but also has so much to say about the way we hear the music of the past. When he played Mozart and late Schumann at the piano for me, Widmann rejoiced in finding the moments of acidulous dissonance, unresolved tensions and modernist style-clashes in music I might have thought I knew. In a sense, those works of his that are obviously based on previous music (like this one, Con Brio, composed as a tribute to Beethoven for the Bavarian Radio Symphony Orchestra) explode their models to create a soundscape of instability and unpredictability. But really, as in the Jagdquartett, what Widmann is doing is revealing the fissures and cracks in the original pieces, asking us to hear Beethoven with the same sense of thrill and novelty with which we listen to new music. For Widmann, honouring that music of the past is the opposite of putting it on a pedestal. His essential project is to reveal the continuing contemporary vitality of Mozart or Schubert. That's the fundamental connection between his performing career and his work as a composer, because any Widmann performance brings whatever he plays kicking and screaming into the present day, whether it's his own pieces or the Brahms clarinet quintet. But don't think Widmann's voice is anything but essentially of his own time. A new opera, Babylon, with a libretto by one of Germany's greatest living thinkers, Peter Sloterdijk, premieres at the Bayerisches Staatsoper in Widmann's hometown of Munich at the end of the month. Having already worked on stage pieces with Anselm Kiefer and an earlier opera about human cloning for Munich, The Face in the Mirror, Widmann's vision of Babylon could be one of the most important new operas of the decade. Watch this space. Five key links \u2022 Fantasie: Widmann plays his own solo for clarinet \u2022 Implosion \u2022 Armonica \u2022 Jagdquartett \u2022 F\u00fcnf Bruchst\u00fccke",
  "tags": [
    "music/music",
    "culture/culture",
    "music/classical-music-and-opera",
    "music/opera"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "words": null
}