{
  "id": "stage/2014/nov/21/shakespeares-globe-magna-carta-800th-anniversary-king-john",
  "class": false,
  "title": "Shakespeare's Globe to stage King John for 800th anniversary of Magna Carta",
  "lead": "Summer 2015 production means all 38 plays written entirely or substantially by Shakespeare will have been performed at Globe",
  "content": "Shakespeare's Globe will finally have staged every one of the Bard's known plays when it puts on King John next year to mark Magna Carta's 800th anniversary. \"This is a very significant moment for us,\" said the theatre's artistic director, Dominic Dromgoole. \"Doing the play that naturally attaches itself to Magna Carta, King John, is finishing a very big jigsaw puzzle that has been growing for 20 years.\" Dromgoole revealed details of his final summer season in charge on Friday, The June production of the seldom performed King John means all 38 of the plays written entirely or substantially by Shakespeare will have been performed on the kind of stage that would have existed in his day. The theatre, in south London, opened in 1997 and under its first artistic director, Mark Rylance, 21 Shakespeare plays were performed. Dromgoole, who took over in 2006, has swept up the remainder. It sets up an interesting challenge for his successor, said Dromgoole. \"If Mark and I have done that task it makes you intellectually recalibrate how you approach the place if you are not putting them on for the first time.\" King John will be a co-production with the Royal and Derngate in Northampton, whose artistic director James Dacre will direct. Dacre said King John could have contemporary resonance in that Shakespeare was trying to unlock things about the political insecurities and tensions of Elizabethan times. \"It speaks quite meaningfully to what it might mean to perform this play in an election year.\" Intriguingly, King John will also be taken to candlelit churches which have strong ties to that time \u2013 Temple church in London, where several of the play's key characters are buried, and the Holy Sepulchre in Northampton, a church frequently visited by King John and his court. King John will be part of a summer season called Justice and Mercy, which will also include The Merchant of Venice, directed by Jonathan Munby; As You Like It, directed by Blanche McIntyre; Measure for Measure, directed by Dromgoole; and Richard II, directed by Simon Godwin. There will also be a new play by Jessica Swale charting the remarkable life of Nell Gwynn, from possible herring gutter and child prostitute to superstar actor and escort to King Charles II. The theatre hopes to find a replacement for Dromgoole by May. Whoever takes over will inherit a theatre with a striking international programme. It is a quarter of the way through an ambitious tour taking Hamlet to every country in the world. On Thursday it was in Paraguay and on Saturday it will be seen in Montevideo, Uruguay. Changes have been made to the itinerary \u2013 west Africa will now be visited in 2016 because of the Ebola situation \u2013 but Dromgoole remains confident of completing the mission as stated, even North Korea, he said.",
  "tags": [
    "stage/shakespeares-globe",
    "culture/shakespeare",
    "stage/theatre",
    "stage/stage",
    "culture/culture",
    "uk/uk"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "words": null
}