{
  "id": "science/punctuated-equilibrium/2011/mar/24/2",
  "class": false,
  "title": "The Species Seekers [Book Review]",
  "lead": "A meticulously researched and witty tale of the history of natural history, reporting on the brave men and women who went to the ends of the Earth in search of new life forms, from Linnaeus, who invented a taxonomic classification scheme to organise life, to twentieth-century medical doctors, who used their knowledge of new species to conquer epidemic diseases",
  "content": "The public is endlessly fascinated by the possibility that there might be life on other planets. What might those life forms look like? Might they have DNA? How might they behave? Might there even be intelligent life somewhere \"out there\"? Despite the fact that some people have turned their eyes to the stars in their search for life, new species are still being discovered here on Earth nearly every day. When scientists first began formally collecting, describing and cataloging the world's species, just 4,400 animals and 7,700 plants were known. By the end of the 19th century, there were more than 415,600 described species. Today, more than 2 million species have been described, and scientists estimate that there are yet another 50 million species on our little blue planet, awaiting discovery. But how did this age of discovery start? Who were these intrepid people who traveled to the remotest places of this planet in search of new life forms? What does it actually mean to \"discover\" a new species? These questions motivated science writer Richard Conniff to write The species seekers: heroes, fools and the mad pursuit of life on Earth (W. W. Norton &amp; Co.; 2010; ISBN: 978-0393068542 [Amazon UK; Amazon US]). But locating and identifying new life forms is not a new pastime: it had been an ongoing passion, an occupation that is part of what makes us uniquely human. This colourful tale begins at a time when early gentlemen naturalists were risking life and limb in their quest to discover all of God's creation and bring it back home so others could also admire God's handiwork. The book begins in the mid 1700s, when these early naturalists realised that \"Adam's task\" of naming species was far from completed. This is where Carl Linn\u00e6us enters the story. Before Linnaeus, naturalists had no language or methodology for discussing the tide of new species. They couldn't agree on how to name the plants and animals in their own backyards. So how could they possibly make sense of species at the opposite ends of the Earth? Finding the answer would take an act of heroic audacity, and Linnaeus saw himself as just such a hero. [p. 38] Even though Linn\u00e6us believed God created each and every species in its present form, his idea (published in 1735 in his book Systema Natur\u00e6) that all life could be arranged into an interrelated hierarchy was revolutionary. Not only did Linn\u00e6us's taxonomic classification scheme -- kingdom, phylum, class, order, family, genus, species -- provide a formal process for giving each living thing a unique name, it also triggered yet more exploration where new species were the treasure being sought. But agreeing on how to name this influx of newly discovered species wasn't the only challenge facing naturalists. It was difficult to store representatives of each species as reference materials. Collections of live animals were difficult to keep and even dead animals were short-lived: each mounted specimen lasted only three or four years before it finally succumbed to decay. However, the discovery of the preservative properties of arsenic (usually in the form of arsenical soap) in the late 18th century, sparked a revolution in taxidermy. Arsenic use became so widespread that by 1830, naturalists \"no longer regarded taxidermy as a problem but considered it a technique\" (p. 163). Arsenic revolutionized the study of natural history because, for the first time, permanent \"type specimens\" representing every known species could be vouchered in a museum with reference to its formal published description. This made it possible to study large collections of animals from near and far, allowing naturalists to identify patterns in the vast array of the world's biodiversity. This, in turn, provided biological thinkers with important clues into species variation and how these variations reflected geographic distribution and evolution. The theories of evolution and biogeography have repeatedly been tested; providing important and useful insights for other fields of study, particularly medicine. In the late 1800s, medical doctors began to apply their knowledge about natural history, biogeography and species to the practical challenges of conquering insect-borne infectious diseases such as yellow fever, typhus and malaria. Unfortunately, such ideas were ridiculed for many years to come by those with an insufficient knowledge of natural history. As a modern day \"species seeker\" who uses DNA techniques and phylogenetic methodologies to identify new species and to reconstruct evolutionary trees of birds, I was disappointed that the author didn't include a chapter about state-of-the-art systematics. Even though the writing was somewhat uneven in places, this book is entertaining and very readable. The cast of characters -- quirky, arrogant, amusing, ambitious, insightful -- provide a captivating narrative for how science really works. I was especially entertained by stories of platypuses, electric eels, and even by a fish species with bullet-proof scales. Conniff expertly weaves tales of conflict, adventure and discovery together with advances in scientific methodologies to show how they led to dramatic shifts in the history of human thought. The Species Seekers is meticulously researched (with extensive chapter notes, bibliography and index) and is deftly written with a sly wit that will delight and inform, whether you have a casual interest or lifelong commitment to either history or the sciences. . Richard Conniff writes about animal behaviour. His work has appeared in a number of magazines, including the Smithsonian, National Geographic and The New York Times Magazine. He has been a frequent commentator on National Public Radio, has written and presented programmes on television and currently is an online guest columnist for The New York Times. He is the author of nine books. He also has a website that might entertain you.",
  "tags": [
    "science/science"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "words": null
}