{
  "id": "sport/2010/sep/15/plumpton-drive-in-movies",
  "class": false,
  "title": "Plumpton to host drive-in movies as cuts start to bite",
  "lead": "Plumpton is to host drive-in movies as racing's funding crisis forces small courses to branch out",
  "content": "This is an anxious time for executives at many of Britain's racecourses, as they wait to be told next week how many fixtures they will be allowed to stage in 2011. But for some, the worst is already known and it has much more to do with the slashing of central funding than the much-vaunted fixtures cull. Plumpton, a rural jumps track in East Sussex, owns all of its 16 racedays and is therefore unaffected by the British Horseracing Authority's stated intention to withdraw the 250 fixtures it controls. But, like many small, independently owned courses, it will struggle to cope with the hole in its business plan caused by the dramatic fall in the sport's income from bookmakers. At Plumpton, that hole amounts to at least \u00a3120,000 according to Claire Sheppard, the chief executive. \"We're not a course that makes big profits,\" she said yesterday, explaining why she must now try new ways of making ends meet. On Saturday night, the eve of the track's first fixture after its four-month summer break, Plumpton will turn itself into a drive-in cinema, showing Mamma Mia! on what is claimed to be Europe's biggest outdoor screen. Around 500 cars are expected at \u00a330 each. \"We're looking at ways of diversifying, putting on events that aren't being done by anyone else in the area,\" Sheppard said. \"We're trying to make the business more profitable in other ways, so we can continue to fund the racing.\" That task became much harder when Sheppard was told recently that, starting next year, she will no longer receive central funding towards prize money for the two Sunday fixtures at Plumpton, one of which is this weekend's popular ladies' day. In both cases, the fixture has been ruled to be the least significant of the three on that day. Sheppard said she was offered funding if she could switch either date to an empty slot in the fixture list, but her room for manoeuvre is limited because the track's clay base means the going is usually too firm for summer racing. The fixtures will remain where they are, with the course footing the bill. Further damage was done when the BHA cut in half the money to be paid to Plumpton as an incentive to stage racing on midweek winter days that offer little commercial appeal. Sheppard said she would aim to maintain her course's prize money contribution next year, but could offer no longer-term commitment. A similar tone was struck by Ed Gretton, clerk of the course at Bangor, where officials have applied for three self-funded fixtures to replace the three withdrawn by the BHA. The prizes offered on those days would be \"pretty low\", he warned. \"If we had to make up the prize money contribution that we will lose for next year, that would wipe out any profit we might make, and that will be the same for a lot of tracks.\" Though central funding is clearly stretched, the total number of fixtures to be culled seems certain to be well below even the reduced target of 150 mentioned by BHA officials in recent weeks. In some quarters, it is suggested that the final figure may be less than 50, an almost insignificant cut. Arena Leisure expects to lose no more than \"two or three days\" each at Southwell, Lingfield and Wolverhampton. Ffos Las has applied for 12 self-funded fixtures to replace those taken back by the BHA. The random nature of the process is illustrated by the situation at Catterick, which lost a BHA-owned jumps fixture in mid-February, but has elected to move a November Flat fixture, which it owns, into the same slot. Since the November fixture attracted full central funding, there will now be full central funding for the February raceday, which was supposed to have been killed off. The BHA's approach to the issue was attacked by John Sanderson, chairman at Wetherby. \"You would think they would decide what fixtures were necessary, according to the horse population and our customers, broadcasters and bookmakers, and then apply the available funding to the schedule,\" he said. \"But we seem to be doing it the other way around and the benefits of that are lost on me.\" The BHA's Paul Struthers said that was unfair. \"Our team are as hands-on as the current nature of fixture ownership allows them to be. The problem is that the BHA has direct control of only 250 fixtures. \"While betting continues not to pay a fair return to racing, there is bound to be a risk to jobs and to racecourses. We warned of it and it may come to fruition.\"",
  "tags": [
    "sport/horse-racing",
    "sport/sport"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "words": null
}