{
  "id": "books/2012/jun/30/review-cold-hands-warm-heart-jill-wolfson",
  "class": false,
  "title": "Cold Hands, Warm Heart by Jill Wolfson - review",
  "lead": "ThePinkElephant: 'The characters were genuine; they weren't perfect, yet they all had a charming quality'",
  "content": "Cold Hands, Warm Heart's blurb I found was extremely misleading: \"Dani was born with her heart on the wrong side of her body. In her fifteen years of life, she's had more doctor's appointments, X-rays, and tests, and eaten more green hospital Jell-O than she cares to think about. Fourteen-year-old Amanda is a competitive gymnast, her body a small package of sleek muscles, in perfect health. The two girls don't know each other, don't go to the same school, don't have any friends in common. But their lives are about to collide.\" This suggested to me that perhaps Amanda's consciousness and personality would overpower Dani's or some weird sci-fi twist. It did not. Amanda dies in the first chapter and her heart was donated to Dani. This novel revolves around Dani's acceptance and worries about the previous owner of her brand new organ, and philosophical ponderings on what the heart actually is: an organ that pumps blood around your body and keeps you alive, or the poetic place where your emotions and desires lurk; and also Tyler, how he deals with the loss of his sister/mutual enemy, and how he learns more about her beyond the grave via documents on her laptop. I had quite mixed feelings about this novel. On one side, I was a little disappointed as I had - judging by the blurb - prepared myself for a completely different storyline. However, the story that it was, I liked. The characters were genuine; they weren't perfect (they definitely aren't perfect), yet they all had a charming quality. More than Dani, I found myself drawn more to Tyler's story, his acceptance and stages of mourning. I liked that he wasn't the generic, emotionally-damaged, grieving older brother, and was quite a mystery to the audience, even at the end. A good book. Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!",
  "tags": [
    "books/teen-books",
    "books/booksforchildrenandteenagers",
    "books/books",
    "culture/culture"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "words": null
}