{
  "id": "technology/2009/jan/08/twitter-barack-obama-britney-spears-micro-blog-networking",
  "class": false,
  "title": "What sort of Twitter would give away their password?",
  "lead": "The micro-blog site has just discovered one of the drawbacks of attracting a lot of attention",
  "content": "Twitter has just discovered one of the drawbacks of attracting a lot of attention: this weekend, it suffered a large phishing attack, and 33 of its \"celebrity users\" had their accounts hacked. People who \"follow\" Britney Spears, Barack Obama and others were treated to some humorous \"tweets\", with Rick Sanchez from CNN apparently reporting: \"I am high on crack right now might not be coming into work today.\" In the phishing attack, some Twitter users were lured into giving away their passwords after they received direct messages (DMs) from friends that said \"hey! check out this funny blog about you...\". The link took users to a site that copied Twitter's front page. Twitter dealt with the problem by reporting the offending domain, and resetting the passwords of people who had logged in. It also found the site had a similar fake page for Facebook users. While it would now be considered foolish to follow an email link and give away your password, this is a normal part of using Twitter. More than 100 third-party sites and add-on programs have been launched to offer new features to Twitter users, and these are very widely used. Many of them require users to type in their Twitter IDs and passwords. One such utility, Twply, was knocked together, launched, heavily used and then sold on Sitepoint within 24 hours. Whoever paid $1,200 (\u00a3820) now has a pile of Twitter IDs and passwords. Part of the problem is that Twitter started as a somewhat trivial application, and users may not have felt their ID and password were particularly valuable. Now it is becoming widely used and features regularly in the press, things are more serious: people's reputations could be affected. Another part of the problem is that Twitter does not provide a mechanism that allows safer external access to data. Open-source advocate Chris Messina, author Dave Cross and others have argued that Twitter ought to support OpenID and the OAuth protocol for \"delegated authentication\". While Twitter has said it will release a closed beta version of OAuth, it has yet to do that. The celebrity account hacking appears to have been performed using Twitter's own internal support tools - those used \"to help people do things like edit the email address associated with their Twitter account when they can't remember or get stuck\". Twitter said: \"We immediately took the support tools offline. We'll put them back only when they're safe and secure.\" Pointing out that Facebook users have also been attacked recently, David Emm from Kaspersky Lab says: \"Social networking sites are easy prey for cyber criminals. Users are very trusting of these sites, so they lower their guard. Vulnerabilities in these sites are often left open for significant periods of time, making it easy for hackers to take full advantage of security loopholes.\" Since we have already suffered from security being an afterthought with the internet, email and certain operating systems, it's dispiriting when it's still an afterthought for web 2.0 sites as well.",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "media/blogging",
    "technology/internet",
    "technology/technology",
    "world/privacy"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "words": null
}