{
  "id": "technology/2014/may/12/twitter-abuse-report-form-bug-optimising-criado-perez",
  "class": false,
  "title": "Twitter accused of 'optimising for abusers' over error in report form",
  "lead": "Changes to the website's form for reporting abuse has restarted the row over harassment on the social network. By Alex Hern",
  "content": "Twitter is to fix a bug in its abuse reporting feature that led to it being accused of optimising its platform for abusers. But campaigners argue that even once the error is corrected, the social network will still not be doing enough to protect at-risk individuals from harassment, threats and abuse. Caroline Criado-Perez, a feminist who led the successful campaign to ensure women were represented on English and Welsh banknotes, argued in a blog post that a change in the forms used to report harassment \"has once again optimised its platform for abusers\". \"Less than a year after they started to automatically include links to abusive tweets in the report form, they have silently removed this functionality,\" Criado-Perez wrote. \"There has been no announcement, no explanation. \"I discovered it last night when yet another man decided to make me the target of his misogynistic bile and found that I had to go back to the abuse, and view it again, in order to find the link to report it. In all the process took about five minutes. Not that bad when it's once in a while, perhaps. When it's several times a day, every day, the time starts to mount up.\" Twitter says the change was a mistake, which will be fixed by Tuesday. A bug was introduced when the company was updating the code that links the report abuse button to the actual forms. But Criado-Perez argues that the bug underscores the lack of progress made by Twitter on preventing abuse since the \"report abuse\" button was introduced to great fanfare in August 2013. \"I remain hugely disappointed that all their promises that the changes in August were just a 'first step' came to nothing,\" she tells the Guardian. \"In December they made changes that went in the absolute opposite direction from what I (and many other people) were asking for from the blocking system \u2013 and I found the statement that they issued when they reversed the changes worryingly high-handed and dismissive of the real concerns people have about how easy it is to stalk and incite abuse with the current system.\" To underscore the level of abuse she and other campaigners receive on the service, Criado-Perez published a selection of the abusive messages she has received in the past year. As well as posting her home address, email and phone number, the harassers threaten to \"mutilate her genitals with scissors\", set off a car bomb outside her house and rape her.",
  "tags": [
    "technology/twitter",
    "technology/technology",
    "media/media",
    "media/social-media",
    "media/socialnetworking"
  ],
  "core-words": null,
  "words": null
}